

===== PAGE 1 =====
An Online Fragmentation-Aware GPU Scheduler for
Multi-Tenant MIG-based Clouds
Marco Zambianco∗, Lorenzo Fasol∗, Roberto Doriguzzi-Corin∗
∗Fondazione Bruno Kessler (FBK), Trento, Italy
Email: mzambianco, lfasol, rdoriguzzi@fbk.eu
Abstract—The explosive growth of AI applications has created
unprecedented demand for GPU resources. Cloud providers
meet this demand through GPU-as-a-Service platforms that offer
rentable GPU resources for running AI workloads. In this
context, the sharing of GPU resources between different tenants is
essential to maximize the number of scheduled workloads. Among
the various GPU sharing technologies, NVIDIA’s Multi-Instance
GPU (MIG) stands out by partitioning GPUs at hardware
level into isolated slices with dedicated compute and memory,
ensuring strong tenant isolation, preventing resource contention,
and enhancing security. Despite these advantages, MIG’s fixed
partitioning introduces scheduling rigidity, leading to severe GPU
fragmentation in multi-tenant environments, where workloads
are continuously deployed and terminated. Fragmentation leaves
GPUs underutilized, limiting the number of workloads that can
be accommodated. To overcome this challenge, we propose a
novel scheduling framework for MIG-based clouds that maxi-
mizes workload acceptance while mitigating fragmentation in an
online, workload-agnostic setting. We introduce a fragmentation
metric to quantify resource inefficiency and guide allocation de-
cisions. Building on this metric, our greedy scheduling algorithm
selects GPUs and MIG slices that minimize fragmentation growth
for each incoming workload. We evaluate our approach against
multiple baseline strategies under diverse workload distributions.
Results demonstrate that our method consistently achieves higher
workload acceptance rates, leading to an average 10% increase
in the number of scheduled workloads in heavy load conditions,
while using approximately the same number of GPUs as the
benchmark methods.
Index Terms—Multi-instance GPU, GPU fragmentation, re-
source allocation
I. INTRODUCTION
The rapid proliferation of AI applications has created an
unprecedented demand for GPUs capable of provisioning
a wide range of services (i.e., chatbots, computer vision
tasks, recommendation systems, etc.) [1]. To streamline the
deployment process of these applications and reduce capital
expenditure sustained by service providers to buy the neces-
sary GPU hardware, cloud providers offers GPU-as-services
platforms which enable the renting of GPU resources based
on a pay-per-use business model. In this scenario, GPU sharing
techniques are often used to multiplex applications of various
tenants within the same GPU hardware, improving the re-
source utilization efficiency and thus boosting renting revenues
for the cloud provider [2]. In contrast to traditional compute
resources (e.g., CPU, memory, and storage), which can be
readily shared among co-located workloads, GPUs necessitate
specialized techniques such as time slicing [3], multi-process
service (MPS) [4], and GPU virtualization (vGPU) to sup-
port concurrent sharing. Among these, NVIDIA’s proprietary
Multi-Instance GPU (MIG) feature, which is increasingly
supported by new generation graphic cards, distinguishes itself
by allowing a spatial partition of a GPU in multiple slices
with dedicated compute and memory resources [5]. In multi-
tenants environment, this sharing strategy is an appealing
2g
20gb
1g
10gb
2g
20gb
Workload 
Tenant A
GPU
2g
20gb
2g
20gb
1g
10gb
2g
20gb
Workload
Tenant B
GPU
t = 1
t = 0
(a) GPU fragmentation caused by workload arrival.
1g
10gb
2g
20gb
1g
10gb
4g
40gb
2g
20gb
1g
10gb
GPU
GPU
Workload 
Tenant A
Workload 
Tenant B
t = 0
t = 1
(b) GPU fragmentation caused by workload termination.
Fig. 1: Examples of GPU fragmentation caused by workload
arrival and termination. Fragmentation is represented by red
hatched rectangles.
option compared to logical sharing techniques performed at
software-level as it makes it possible to fully isolate ten-
ants allocated on the same GPU. Specifically, hardware-level
isolation prevents resource contention between workloads [6]
and improves security by shielding them from side-channel
and denial-of-service attacks initiated by co-located malicious
applications [7]. However, these benefits come at the cost of
scheduling flexibility since partition options are restricted to
predetermined profiles which identify specific compute and
memory slices of the GPU. As a result, finding strategies to
effectively allocate workloads according to these constraints
becomes fundamental to maximize the number of accommo-
dated applications.
In this context, the research activity has proposed different
solutions to improve the resource utilization of MIG-based
deployments such as the computation of the optimal partition
size that minimize resource waste and the adoption of logical
slicing to access unused resources within each MIG partition
[8], [9], [10]. These techniques assume a single-tenant setup,
where one service provider controls both the life cycle of its AI
services and the resources of underlying GPU infrastructure.
In this setting, the provider can combine several of the earlier
solutions to work around MIG limitations. However, in a
multi-tenant environment, the cloud provider that schedules
applications on shared GPUs usually has little insight into each
workload’s behavior or lifespan. Consequently, such solutions
cannot be safely applied without risking disruptions to the
availability of running applications. Moreover, the constant de-
ployment and termination of workloads, combined with MIG’s
rigid scheduling rules, leads to heavy fragmentation of GPU
arXiv:2511.18906v1  [cs.DC]  24 Nov 2025


===== PAGE 2 =====
resources. The effect of fragmentation reduces the number
of schedulable workloads on a GPU because the available
MIG slices do not comply with the partition constraints and
cannot be utilized. To better illustrate this aspect, we provide a
pictorial representation in Fig. 1 of the fragmentation dynamic
when new workloads are scheduled (Fig. 1a) and when they
are terminated (Fig. 1b). Building on these observations, we
aim to adapt MIG-based deployments to multi-tenant scenarios
while addressing the issue of GPU resource fragmentation.
To this end, we approach fragmentation mitigation from a re-
source allocation perspective and design an online scheduling
algorithm for MIG profiles that effectively reduces GPU frag-
mentation, without prior knowledge about workload resource
distribution. As a result, by improving the GPU utilization, a
greater number of workloads can be successfully scheduled,
thereby increasing the potential renting revenue for the cloud
provider. In detail, the main contribution of this work are as
follows:
• We design a metric to analytically measure the fragmen-
tation severity experienced by GPUs shared using MIG.
This metric makes it possible to compare fragmentation
levels across GPUs based on their currently allocated
MIG profiles and can be used to support more informed
decisions about future workload placements.
• We design a scheduling algorithm based on a greedy
approach that leverages the proposed fragmentation met-
ric to maximize the workload acceptance rate. For each
workload to schedule, which requests GPU resources in
the form of a MIG profile, the algorithm evaluates the
current fragmentation severity of the available GPUs and
select the GPU and related MIG slices that minimize the
fragmentation growth.
• We evaluate the performance of the proposed scheduling
solution with respect to several benchmark schemes using
different strategies to select GPUs and related MIG slices.
The results show that our approach outperforms the base-
lines in all metrics and provides consistent performance
regardless of the workload MIG profile distribution.
The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. In
Section II, we discuss the related work. Section III provides
some background information on the main concepts of MIG.
Section IV describes the considered system model. Section
V presents the fragmentation-aware algorithm for MIG-based
deployments. In Section VI, we discuss the obtained results.
Finally, we draw the conclusion in Section VII.
II. RELATED WORK
The problem of scheduling of AI workload on multi-tenant
GPU clusters has been broadly investigated in the recent years.
An overview of the main concepts and related challenges can
be found in [11] and [12].
The authors of [13] tackles MIG slice under-utilization
using MPS to estimate appropriate resource needs and select
optimal MIG partitions to improve AI service performance.
Similarly, [14] and [15] integrate MIG with MPS to boost
utilization in underutilized slices while controlling resource
contention caused by logical slicing. In contrast, [16] employs
a reinforcement learning agent to minimize the makespan
of AI workloads on MIG by modeling workload dynamics.
Different from these studies, we focus on MIG-based workload
allocation from a cloud provider’s perspective, designing a
fragmentation-aware scheduling algorithm that improves GPU
1 SM
1 SM
1 SM
1 SM
1 SM
1 SM
10GB
10GB
10GB
10GB
10GB
10GB
10GB
Slice 3
Slice 6
Profile 1g.20gb
Index 6
Profile 2g.20gb
Index 2
Compute
Memory
Index
0
4
5
6
3
2
1
1 SM
10GB
Fig. 2: A100 MIG-based representation of slices and profiles.
cluster utilization without relying on external information
about workload type and service performance.
The authors of [17] analyze the problem of fragmentation
in GPU clusters and propose a fragmentation metric for GPU
nodes in order to design a fragmentation-aware allocation
algorithm. Similarly, the authors of [18] and [19] extend
this fragmentation-aware approach to online settings where
workload arrival is distributed in time and by including the
minimization of GPU power consumption, respectively. Al-
though these solutions address the problem of GPU fragmenta-
tion, the proposed fragmentation metrics assume a MPS-based
GPU sharing, leaving the MIG-based sharing uncovered. We
instead propose a fragmentation metric tailored to MIG which
quantifies the fragmentation severity by evaluating the amount
of unschedulable MIG profiles.
Finally, [20], [21] tackle the problem of resource efficiency
in MIG-based deployments designing rescheduling and ad-
mission control schemes, respectively, to reduce GPU frag-
mentation and increase the amount of successfully allocated
workloads. However, [20] uses a static, periodic rescheduling
approach, whereas [21] relies on prior knowledge of MIG
profile distributions to guide its admission control policy.
In contrast, our algorithm serves workload requests online,
continuously mitigating fragmentation without any a-priori
assumptions about the statistic of the requested MIG profiles.
III. MULTI-INSTANCE GPU (MIG) BACKGROUND
MIG is a feature introduced with NVIDIA’s Ampere ar-
chitecture, and now available on the latest GPUs, that allows
multiple jobs to securely share a single GPU without com-
peting for the same resources [22]. By partitioning a physical
GPU into up to seven fully isolated instances, each with its
own compute and memory resources, MIG allows for efficient
multi-tenant usage. It is particularly effective for AI inference
workloads, multi-tenant cloud environments, and scenarios
where individual jobs do not fully utilize GPU capacity.
The partitioning mechanism is based on fundamental build-
ing blocks called slices. GPU memory is divided into eight
memory slices, each representing 1/8 of the total memory ca-
pacity. Similarly, streaming multiprocessors (SMs) are divided
into seven SM slices, each containing roughly 1/7 of the total
compute units. Typically, a GPU slice is formed by pairing
one memory slice with one SM slice, except for the last GPU
slice, which combines one SM slice with two memory slices.
To standardize and simplify the GPU partitioning, NVIDIA
defines several MIG profiles, which describe valid combina-
tions of compute and memory resources that can be exclusive
accessed, ensuring complete hardware-level isolation through
separate memory pathways. Each MIG profile specifies the
size of the compute and memory slices, using the naming


===== PAGE 3 =====
TABLE I: MIG specifications for A100 GPU
Profile
Slice
No. Instances
Index
7g.80gb
7
1
{0}
4g.40gb
4
1
{0}
3g.40gb
4
2
{0, 4}
2g.20gb
2
3
{0, 2, 4}
1g.20gb
2
4
{0, 2, 4, 6}
1g.10gb
1
7
{0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6}
convention <g>g.<mem>gb. For example, as depicted in Fig.
2, on an A100-80GB GPU, a 2g.20gb instance profile allocates
two SM slices and two 10GB slices, while a 1g.20gb instance
profile uses one SM slices and two 10GB of memory. Note that
this procedure can be extended to any GPU model supporting
MIG. Placement indexes determine the physical location on
the GPU where each profile is mapped on the hardware,
ensuring that the assigned slices are contiguous. We resume
all possible feasible profile configurations for the A100 model
in Tab. I. This contiguity requirement implies that not all
combinations of instance profiles can coexist simultaneously,
as available slices must be assigned in contiguous blocks
without gaps. The adoption of placement indexes introduces
additional constraints on configuration flexibility during the
creation and removal of dynamic instances. Consequently,
this leads to an optimization problem focused on maximizing
resource utilization and minimizing fragmentation, in order to
reduce inefficiency and resource wastage.
IV. SYSTEM MODEL
We consider a homogeneous GPU cluster composed of the
same hardware model (e.g. A100, H100, etc) that support
MIG. The infrastructure is owned and managed by a cloud
provider which offers a GPU-as-a-Service platform that allows
external users to rent GPUs resources based on a pay-per-
use billing model. We assume that MIG is employed as GPU
sharing technology so each tenant can request fractional GPU
resources tailored to run his AI applications in an isolated
multi-tenant environment. Formally, we indicate the set of
GPUs in the cluster as M, where each GPU m is composed by
Sm slices identified by the set of indexes I = {0, ..., Sm −1}.
The amount of supported MIG profiles is indicated by the set
P = {1g.10gb, ..., 4g.40gb, 7g.80gb} and the related set of
feasible indexes as Ip ⊆I, p ∈P. Similarly, we define the
set of workloads to schedule as W, where each workload w
requests a MIG profile p ∈P which corresponds to a specific
amount of compute and memory GPU resources rw(p) =
⟨rcomp, rmem⟩, ∀w ∈W. Workload arrivals are distributed
in time and are served by the infrastructure scheduler in an
online fashion following a First-In First-Out queue policy. We
indicate the amount of allocated slices in each GPU using the
indicator variable xm,i, m ∈M, i ∈I, which assumes value
1 if slice i of GPU m is allocated, 0 otherwise. To counteract
the natural increase of resource fragmentation caused by the
continuous arrival and termination of workloads which is
further exacerbated by MIG, the scheduling logic is designed
to individually accommodate each workload request in com-
pliance with MIG constraints while mitigating the resource
fragmentation. The benefit of this strategy allows to increase
the number of accepted workload requests, thereby generating
higher rental revenues for the cloud provider. In this context,
we design a fragmentation-aware scheduling algorithm based
on the following assumptions:
• Unknown workload statistics: the cloud provider is
agnostic of both the statistic of the requested MIG profiles
and lifespan duration. Therefore, the designed scheduler
should provide reliable scheduling decisions regardless of
the MIG profile requests distribution, hence it works in
an online setting by adapting the scheduling decision to
the current state of the GPU cluster.
• Dynamic GPU partition reconfiguration: MIG par-
titions are automatically created at runtime based on
workload requirements by dynamically aggregating MIG
slices. This capability, introduced in recent MIG driver
versions and leveraged by real-world GPU schedulers1,
enhances resource flexibility as it eliminates the need to
pre-configure partitions on the available GPUs.
• No workload rescheduling: although beneficial for de-
fragmenting resources, re-scheduling workloads across
GPUs may cause service disruption during the migra-
tion process, affecting tenants’ applications performance.
Therefore, we assume that the scheduler exclusively allo-
cates workloads based on the current availability of MIG
slices without the possibility to modify the allocation in
the future (we are going to consider rescheduling in a
future work to augment the proposed scheduling logic).
Our approach adopts a heuristic scheduling strategy, as
opposed to an exact optimal formulation, to ensure practical
applicability and scalability. This choice is motivated by
the online nature of the scheduling problem, which would
otherwise require prior knowledge of future workload arrivals
and lifespans to globally optimize the workload allocations.
Furthermore, the maximization of the number of allocated
workloads can be viewed as a variant of the bin packing
problem where items (i.e., MIG profiles) are subject to po-
sition constraints within bins (i.e., GPUs), as demonstrated
in similar MIG scheduling studies [20][21]. As a result, the
combinatorial complexity makes the computation of optimal
solutions impractical for real-world deployments.
V. FRAGMENTATION-AWARE SCHEDULING FOR MIG
In this section we describe the proposed scheduling algo-
rithm mitigating GPU fragmentation when using MIG. First
we define a fragmentation measure for MIG deployments
which quantifies the fragmentation severity on GPUs. Then,
we leverage this formulation to design a fragmentation-aware
allocation scheme of MIG profiles.
A. The impact of MIG fragmentation on scheduling decisions
Fragmented GPUs can severely alter the scheduling perfor-
mance by causing unexpected workload rejection. Therefore,
the definition of a fragmentation metric tailored to MIG covers
an essential role to drive the design of an effective scheduling
algorithm overcoming this issue. To highlight the significance
of this requirement, Fig. 3 presents two examples demon-
strating how fragmentation-agnostic scheduling strategies fail
to allocate workloads on MIG-based clusters. Specifically,
the considered scheduling schemes employ opposite criteria
for GPU selection, illustrating this behavior under different
scheduling scenarios. One scheme is based on a best-fit logic
which selects the GPU minimizing the waste of MIG slices
(Fig. 3a), the other employs a load-balancing approach and
selects the GPU with the least amount of allocated MIG slices
1https://www.theriseunion.com/en/blog/HAMi-2-5-0.html


===== PAGE 4 =====
2g
20gb
3g
40gb
1g
10gb
GPU 2
Workload
GPU utilization (43%)
Scheduling decision:
GPU 2
Index 4
MIG compute slices
GPU 1
GPU utilization (30%)
MIG compute slices
1g
10gb
1g
10gb
(a) Example of workload rejection using best-fit scheduling
Scheduling decision:
GPU 1
Index 0
GPU 1
GPU utilization (30%)
MIG compute slices
1g
10gb
1g
10gb
2g
20gb
3g
40gb
1g
10gb
GPU 2
Workload
GPU utilization (43%)
MIG compute slices
(b) Example of workload rejection using load-balance scheduling
Fig. 3: Examples of workload rejections using different scheduling strategies. Although enough resource are available in both
scenarios, the workload cannot be scheduled due to resource fragmentation reducing the amount of allocable MIG slices.
(Fig. 3b). Both schemes select the MIG slices indexes by
searching the first available index which can accommodate the
profile. We observe that, although both schemes can identify a
GPU with sufficient resources for the workload, the allocation
still fails because the available indexes on the selected GPU
are incompatible with the requested MIG profile. This problem
arises from fragmentation of MIG slices, which reduces the
number of effectively schedulable MIG profiles on that GPU.
B. Characterizing fragmentation in MIG
Resource fragmentation typically refers to the inefficient
use of computational resources caused by their non-contiguous
allocation. While contiguity is necessary, it alone is not suffi-
cient to determine whether a GPU is fragmented when using
MIG, due to various index constraints that limit scheduling
options. Consequently, we need to refine the definition of
fragmentation to account for these constraints, enabling the
creation of a reliable metric that can quantitatively guide
scheduling decisions. To this end, we address the following
two key questions:
1) Under what conditions can a GPU employing MIG-
based sharing be considered fragmented?
2) Once fragmentation occurs, how can we quantify its
severity?
To answer question 1, we argue that the definition of
fragmented GPU using MIG is a relative concept that in fact
depends on the combination of the MIG profile that is being
scheduled and the available indexes. Referring to Fig. 3a,
workloads requesting the 1g.10gb and 2g.20gb profiles can
be successfully scheduled on GPU 2, as sufficient resources
and feasible indexes are available, even though some allo-
cated slices are not contiguous. In contrast, the 3g.40gb and
4g.40gb profiles are rejected despite an adequate number of
available slices due to feasible indexes being already assigned
to other profiles. (see Table I). Based on this observation, let
∆Sm = Sm −P
i∈I xm,i be the amount of unused slices on
GPU m:
Definition. GPU m ∈M is fragmented with respect to
MIG profile p requested by workload w if rw(p) ≤∆Sm and
P
i∈{¯i,¯i+1,...,¯i+rw(p)−1} xm,i > 0, ∀¯i ∈Ip.
In other words, a GPU is fragmented with respect to profile
p if the latter cannot be scheduled although a sufficient amount
of slice is available. This definition of fragmentation makes
it possible to contextualize its behavior with respect to the
scheduling of workloads and can be used to further elaborate
a fragmentation measure by answering to question 2. As a
matter of fact, the proposed definition of fragmentation is too
Algorithm 1 Fragmentation score computation
1: Input: GPU m ∈M
2: Output: F(m)
3: for each profile p in Pm do
4:
Assume that workload w requests MIG profile p
5:
if rw(p) ≤∆Sm then
6:
for each ¯i ∈Ip do
7:
if P
i∈{¯i,¯i+1,...,¯i+rw(p)−1} xm,i > 0 then
8:
F(m) ←F(m) + rmem
9:
end if
10:
end for
11:
end if
12: end for
coarse and does not allow to discriminate between different
levels of fragmentation severity since a single misplaced MIG
profile on an empty GPU would make the GPU fragmented.
For example, scheduling profile 1g.10gb on MIG slice at index
1 prevents the allocation of MIG profile 4g.40gb. To overcome
this limitation, we augment the notion of GPU fragmentation
by introducing the concept of fragmentation score, referred to
as F(m), m ∈M, which allows to differentiate various level
of fragmentation by assessing the scheduling feasibility of the
supported MIG profiles. We report pseudo-code to compute
the fragmentation score in Algorithm 1. In detail, given a
GPU m, we assume that a hypothetical workload w requesting
profile p is scheduled. Then, we evaluate the feasible allocation
configurations of profile p assessing whether the hypothetical
allocation of profile p at index i ∈Ip is feasible (lines 6-7).
For each unfeasible allocation, we increment the fragmentation
score F(m) by the number of MIG memory slices composing
the profile p (line 8). This procedure is repeated for each
supported profile p ∈Pm. Intuitively, the fragmentation score
associated to a GPU depends on the total number of unfeasible
MIG profile configurations weighted by the number of MIG
memory slices composing the profile. Note that we consider
memory slices in order to account for the misalignment be-
tween compute and memory slices, as the latter are more likely
to be fragmented when allocating profiles requiring unequal
memory and compute slices such as 1g.20gb and 3g.40gb. The
higher the value, the lower is the amount of allocable MIG
slices. As a result, it is possible to compare the fragmentation
severity produced by different MIG allocations. For example,
the fragmentation score of GPU 2 in Fig. 3a, would be
computed as follows. For each of profile, we compute the
number of unfeasible allocations: profile 1g.20gb requires 2


===== PAGE 5 =====
MIG slices (see Table I) and cannot be allocated on index 4
since the second memory slice is allocated to profile 1g.10gb.
As a result, GPU 2 has a partial fragmentation score of 2 (1
unfeasible allocation for a profile composed of 2 MIG memory
slices). By repeating this computation for all remaining profiles
{2g.20gb, 3.40gb, 4.40gb}, the resulting fragmentation score
for GPU 2 is F(2) = 2 + 2 + 8 + 4 = 16. Following the same
procedure, the fragmentation score for GPU 1 is F(1) = 8.
Therefore, by comparing the fragmentation scores of the two
GPUs, we conclude that GPU 2 is more fragmented than
GPU 1. This information allows to analytically compare MIG
allocations across GPUs and links resource utilization with the
scheduling policy.
C. Minimum Fragmentation Increment (MFI) algorithm
We leverage the definition of fragmentation score to design a
fragmentation-aware scheduling algorithm that maximizes the
number of successfully scheduled workloads (in other words,
the number of scheduled MIG profiles that comply with MIG
allocation constraints). In an online scenario, where workloads
are distributed over time and scheduling decisions depend on
the current allocation of GPU resources, fragmentation scores
can vary considerably across scheduling intervals. This varia-
tion is primarily caused by the limited placement flexibility of
certain MIG profiles (e.g., 4g.40gb and 3g.40gb) and by the
termination of deployed workloads, which may release GPU
resources consisting of non-contiguous MIG slices. Following
this observation, inspired by the allocation strategy proposed
by authors of [17], we schedule workloads in order to counter-
act the fragmentation score growth that is bound to naturally
increase over time. Intuitively, this strategy has the effect of
reducing the fragmentation and thus increasing the workload
scheduling success rate. We implement this idea by designing
a scheduling algorithm, named as Minimum Fragmentation
Increment (MFI), which adopts a greedy logic to select the
GPU and related MIG slices minimizing the increment of
fragmentation score. Operationally, the algorithm performs
dry-run allocations on each GPU to estimate the variation
in fragmentation score performance prior to committing the
final scheduling decision. We report the algorithm steps in
Algorithm 2. The algorithm performs the following steps for
each workload to schedule w. We initialize the fragmentation
score variation, ∆F(m), for each GPU m which is going to
be used to assess the impact on fragmentation caused by the
allocation of workload w (line 3). For each GPU m that can
accommodate the requested profile p, we compute the current
fragmentation score F(m) (line 6). Then, we perform dry-run
allocations for each feasible profile index i of profile p and
we store the variation of fragmentation score by computing
the difference between the hypothetical fragmentation score,
F (i)(m), that would be obtained assigning profile p at slice
index i and the original fragmentation score F(m) (lines 7-11).
Finally, if there are candidate GPUs, we schedule workload w
by allocating profile p to GPU m at index i such that the
variation in fragmentation score is minimum (14-19).
The computational complexity required to compute the
scheduling decision for a workload mainly scales with num-
ber of GPUs in the cluster. In detail, the algorithm iterates
throughout all GPUs in linear time O(kM), where k is a
constant accounting for the time required to compute frag-
mentation scores. Each computation depends on the number
of profiles |P| and MIG slice indexes |Ip| supported by
Algorithm 2 Minimum Fragmentation Increment (MFI)
1: Input: GPU cluster M, workload w with MIG profile p
2: Output: Allocation ⟨m, i⟩, m ∈M, i ∈Ip of workload w
3: Initialize the list ∆F (i)(m) = {}, ∀m ∈M
4: for each GPU m ∈M do
5:
if rw(p) ≤∆Sm then
6:
Compute frag. score F(m)
7:
for each i ∈Ip do
8:
Dry-run allocation of p on index i of GPU m
9:
Compute the hypothetical frag. score F (i)(m)
10:
Store ∆F (i)(m)←F (i)(m) −F(m)
11:
end for
12:
end if
13: end for
14: if |∆F (i)(m)| ̸= {ϕ} then
15:
Select GPU m∗and index i∗s.t. argmin{∆F (i)(m)}
16:
Schedule w by allocating profile p to ⟨m∗, i∗⟩
17: else
18:
Reject workload w
19: end if
TABLE II: MIG profile distributions
MIG profile
uniform
skew-small
skew-big
bimodal
7g.80gb
1/6
0.05
0.30
0.30
4g.40gb
1/6
0.10
0.25
0.15
3g.40gb
1/6
0.10
0.20
0.05
2g.20gb
1/6
0.20
0.10
0.05
1g.20gb
1/6
0.25
0.10
0.15
1g.10gb
1/6
0.30
0.05
0.30
the GPU hardware and it is not influenced by the number
of GPUs. Similarly, computing the GPU that minimizes the
fragmentation variation can be done in O(M) if the list of
∆F (i)(m) values is maintained in sorted order as it is updated.
Consequently, the overall complexity is O(kM) + O(M),
which asymptotically simplifies to O(kM).
VI. PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
We assess the performance of MFI algorithm throughout
Monte Carlo simulations. In detail, we simulate the scheduling
of workloads on an empty cluster of M = 100 A100 GPUs
that is progressively loaded up to its maximum capacity.
To synchronize the workload duration with the scheduling
procedure, we express the workload duration in terms of
scheduling slots by randomly sampling a value between [1, T],
where T correspond to the number of scheduling slots required
to saturate the cluster capacity (in other words, when the
total amount of requested GPU resources corresponds to the
amount of resources provided by the cluster). This approach
allows us to simulate the dynamics of a multi-tenant GPU
cluster under varying load conditions, with workloads that
have heterogeneous lifespans and arrival times. Moreover, due
to the lack of real world dataset collecting scheduling statistics
of MIG-based deployments, we analyze the performance of
MFI with respect to different synthetically-generated distri-
butions of MIG profiles to investigate their impact on the
scheduling outcome. Specifically, we consider the following
profile distributions, whose probability density functions are
reported in Table II:
• Uniform: every profile is equally likely. This distribution
serves as baseline for testing the scheduling performance
in a general scenario.


===== PAGE 6 =====
0
20 40 60 80 100
0
20
40
60
80
100
Total GPU Demand (%)
No. of workloads (%)
(a) Scheduled workloads
0
20 40 60 80 100
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
Total GPU Demand (%)
Probability
MFI
BF-BI
WF-BI
FF
RR
(b) Acceptance Rate
0
20 40 60 80 100
0
20
40
60
80
100
Total GPU Demand (%)
Res. utilization (%)
(c) Cluster resource utilization
0
20 40 60 80 100
0
20
40
60
80
100
Total GPU Demand (%)
No. of GPUs (%)
(d) Active GPUs
Fig. 4: Scheduling performance in different load conditions when MIG profile requests are uniformly distributed.
• Skew-small: small profiles are more frequent than large
ones. This distribution is likely to cause severe GPU
fragmentation due to the allocation of many small pro-
files reserving non-contiguous MIG slices which possibly
deny the allocation of large profiles.
• Skew-big: large profiles are more frequent than small
ones. This distribution constrains scheduling flexibility,
as large profiles can be placed only on a limited num-
ber of feasible MIG slice configurations. Consequently,
the benefit of a fragmentation-aware scheduling policy
are modest, given the inherent rigidity of the available
scheduling options.
• Bimodal: mixture of large and small profiles. This dis-
tribution highlights the scheduling performance when
profiles with different amount of scheduling constraints
and fragmentation generation potential are dominant.
We compare MFI algorithm with respect to various schedul-
ing schemes using different strategies to maximize the number
of scheduled MIG profiles. In particular, to better highlight the
impact of MIG scheduling over traditional scheduling tech-
niques, we divide the benchmarks in MIG-agnostic schemes,
that schedule MIG profiles based only on resource availability
on the GPUs, and MIG-aware schemes, that employ a pre-
determined preference policy to select MIG slices indexes. In
particular, we use the solution proposed by the authors of [21]
and we prioritize the allocation of MIG profiles on indexes that
do not restrict the placement of profiles with fewer scheduling
options. For instance, the 1g.10gb profile is assigned to index
6 instead of index 0 whenever possible, thereby reserving
index 0 for the 4g.40gb profile, which can only be scheduled
there. Based on these considerations, we define the following
benchmark schemes:
• First Fit (FF): this scheme is MIG-agnostic and schedule
MIG profiles on the first GPU with enough available
resources. Profiles are assigned to the first available index.
• Round Robin (RR): this scheme is MIG-agnostic and
sequentially distributes MIG profiles on the available
GPUs. Profiles are assigned to the first available index.
• Best Fit Best Index (BF-BI): this scheme is MIG-aware
and follows a bin-packing approach which schedules
MIG profiles on the GPUs minimizing the amount of
available resources after the allocation.
• Worst Fit Best Index (WF-BI): this scheme is MIG-
aware and follows a load-balancing approach which
schedules MIG profiles on the GPUs maximizing the
amount of available resources after the allocation.
We quantify the performance of MFI with respect to the
proposed baselines according to the following metrics:
• Acceptance rate: this is the probability to successfully
schedule a workload on the available GPUs according
to the MIG constraints. We assume that unscheduled
workloads are rejected and are no longer rescheduled
during the simulation. Although we acknowledge this is
not realistic, this approach allows to better analyzing the
performance gap between the various schemes.
• Allocated workloads: this represents the total number
of successfully scheduled workloads in the GPU cluster
and, together with the acceptance rate, characterizes the
primary goal of the scheduling objective.
• Active GPUs: this represents the total number of GPUs
required to accommodate the scheduled workloads. A
GPU is considered active if it is hosting at least one
workload.
• Resource utilization: this is the total amount of allocated
slices in each GPU required to accommodate the various
MIG profiles. Together with the number of active GPUs,
this metric allows to assess the resource utilization effi-
ciency of the various schemes.
• Fragmentation severity: this is the average fragmenta-
tion score of the cluster computed as
1
M
P
m∈M F(m).
We performed 500 independent scheduling simulation for each
distribution and averaging the obtained results. All metrics are
normalized with respect to their maximum value in order to
facilitate the comparison between different schemes and MIG
profile distributions.
We initially discuss the results by analyzing the performance
of the various schemes when MIG profile requests are uni-
formly distributed. In Fig. 4, we report the considered metrics
as the number of requested resources to the GPU cluster
increases. For example, a GPU demand of 50% corresponds
to the scenario where the total amount of workloads arrived
between slot 0 and slot t requires 50% of GPU resources
of the cluster in order to be accommodated. Note that this
value does not account for workloads termination freeing
up resources, hence the actual resource utilization of the
cluster is lower. We observe that MFI achieves the highest
number of scheduled workloads (Fig. 4a) by maintaining an
acceptance rate close to 100% regardless of the cluster load
(Fig. 4b). This is because it adapts the allocation of MIG
profiles to counteract the increase of fragmentation caused by
the combination of rigid MIG constraints and elastic resource
availability. Conversely, the various baselines have visibly
worse performance. In particular, the MIG-agnostic schemes


===== PAGE 7 =====
skew-small
skew-big
bimodal
0
20
40
60
80
100
No. of workloads (%)
(a) Scheduled workloads
skew-small
skew-big
bimodal
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
Probability
(b) Acceptance Rate
skew-small
skew-big
bimodal
0
20
40
60
80
100
Res. utilization (%)
MFI
BF-BI
WF-BI
FF
RR
(c) Cluster resource utilization
skew-small
skew-big
bimodal
0
20
40
60
80
100
No. of GPUs (%)
(d) Active GPUs
Fig. 5: Scheduling performance for different distributions of MIG profiles when the amount of requested GPU resources is
85% of the cluster capacity.
FF and RR perform worst due to the allocation of MIG
profiles on unfeasible indexes. This effect is less severe for low
resource loads since more scheduling options are available,
hence it favors RR scheme which spreads profiles on unused
GPUs. However its performance sharply deteriorates as the
cluster utilization increases, exacerbating the effect of frag-
mentation and making the successful allocation of workloads
more challenging. In this condition, FF performs better due its
higher bin-packing capability, ensuring a higher acceptance
rate in heavy load conditions. MIG-aware schemes behave
similar to the MIG-agnostic counterparts, but provide better
results, confirming that the preference-based index policy is
an effective mechanism to handle MIG constraints. However,
although this strategy aids the fragmentation mitigation, the
static nature of the policy makes the scheduling strategy unable
to adapt to the different fragmentation scenarios caused by the
continuous workload arrival/termination. In regard of resource
efficiency, we observe that MFI achieves the highest resource
utilization (Fig. 4c) employing a proportionate number of
GPUs (Fig. 4d) as the cluster load increases. In contrast, RR
and WF-BI quickly saturate the available GPUs due to their
spreading strategy, which helps satisfying MIG constraints
but also requires a higher number of GPUs. Conversely, FF
and BF-BI pack MIG profile requests more efficiently, with
BF-BI achieving greater improvements thanks to its MIG-
aware scheduling. However, the smaller number of GPUs they
employ is not utilized effectively because higher fragmentation
reduces overall resource usage. This stands in contrast to MFI,
which achieves higher utilization by limiting fragmentation.
We extend the results analysis by showing the performance
obtained with different distributions of MIG profile requests.
In Fig. 5, we provide a snapshot of the performance on a heavy
load scenario corresponding to resource request that is 85% of
the cluster capacity. We observe that MFI outperforms the con-
sidered baselines regardless of the MIG profile distribution and
provides consistent results. In detail, on average, the perfor-
mance gap is wider when MIG profiles follows the skew-small
distribution. The high number of small profiles creates frequent
non-contiguous allocation of MIG profiles, thus leading to
severe fragmentation. Bin packing strategies like BF-BI and
FF are most affected as they prioritize the allocation of most
utilized GPUs which are also likely to be the most fragmented.
In this context, the fixed index selection policy used by BF-BI
provides limited benefit since big profiles are rarely scheduled.
As results, the number of scheduled workloads (Fig. 5a) and
acceptance rate (Fig. 5b) are considerably lower than other
baselines strategies which instead distribute workloads across
GPUs, delaying the fragmentation growth. In contrast, the
performance gap with respect to MFI is smaller when profiles
are distributed according to skew-big. The prevalence of big
MIG profile requests reduces the fragmentation chances due
to the limited number of scheduling options that essentially
force the workload allocation (for example, 7.80gb requires
a full GPU and 4g.40gb can only be allocated on index
0). Therefore, contrary to the previous case, FF and BF-BI
achieve a better resource utilization (Fig. 5c) compared RR
and WF-BI schemes using a lower amount of GPUs (Fig. 5d).
Finally, when MIG profiles follows a bimodal distribution, the
combination of small and big profiles increases the scheduling
complexity due to the presence of conflicting MIG constraints,
which hinder the workload acceptance rate performance of
all baselines. Nonetheless, MFI provides steady performance
thanks to its proactive scheduling approach which suppresses
the fragmentation growth, achieving higher acceptance rates
with a limited number of GPUs.
This analysis demonstrates that the proposed fragmentation
score metric can be used to consistently drive the workload
scheduling process towards a resource-efficient utilization of


===== PAGE 8 =====
uniform
skew-small
skew-big
bimodal
0
2
4
6
8
Fragmentation score
MFI
BF-BI
WF-BI
FF
RR
Fig. 6: Average fragmentation score obtained by different
scheduling strategies and MIG profiles distributions.
GPU resources regardless of the MIG profiles distribution.
To further validate this argument, in Fig. 6, we show the
average fragmentation score obtained by the various schemes
for each considered profile distribution. As expected, the
improved performance achieved with MFI corresponds to
lower fragmentation score values. Similarly, the fragmentation
scores for the other baselines are consistent with their respec-
tive performance: lower acceptance rates and lower resource
utilization correspond to higher fragmentation scores, and vice
versa.
VII. CONCLUSION
We addressed the problem of GPU resource fragmentation
arising from the rigid constraints imposed by MIG and the
continuous allocation and release of GPU resources over time.
This phenomenon significantly reduces the scheduling effi-
ciency of multi-tenant GPU clusters, where workload isolation
is essential to guarantee both quality of service and security
of co-located tenants. In this context, we proposed a fragmen-
tation metric tailored for MIG to quantify the fragmentation
severity of GPUs and we leveraged this information to drive
the scheduling decision of incoming workloads. In detail, the
designed fragmentation-aware scheduling algorithm operates
in an online manner, without any a-priori knowledge of the
workload distribution. It adopts a proactive allocation strat-
egy to suppress the fragmentation growth on GPUs, making
possible to increase the number of successfully allocated
workloads through more efficient resource utilization. We
evaluated the proposed solution against multiple baselines
implementing both MIG-agnostic and MIG-aware scheduling
policies, as well as across various MIG profile distributions to
assess performance sensitivity. Results reveal that our scheme
consistently achieves the highest workload acceptance rate
under different load conditions while ensuring an efficient use
of GPU resources.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
This work was supported by Ministero delle Imprese e del
Made in Italy (IPCEI Cloud DM 27 giugno 2022 - IPCEI-CL-
0000007) and European Union (Next Generation EU).
REFERENCES
[1] X. Miao, G. Oliaro, Z. Zhang, X. Cheng, H. Jin, T. Chen, and Z. Jia,
“Towards efficient generative large language model serving: A survey
from algorithms to systems,” ACM Computing Surveys, vol. 58, no. 1,
pp. 1–37, 2025.
[2] S. Choi, S. Lee, Y. Kim, J. Park, Y. Kwon, and J. Huh, “Serving het-
erogeneous machine learning models on multi-gpu servers with spatio-
temporal sharing,” in USENIX Annual Technical Conference, 2022, pp.
199–216.
[3] S. Garg, K. Kothapalli, and S. Purini, “Share-a-gpu: Providing simple
and effective time-sharing on gpus,” in IEEE International Conference
on High Performance Computing (HiPC).
IEEE, 2018, pp. 294–303.
[4] A. Dhakal, S. G. Kulkarni, and K. Ramakrishnan, “Gslice: controlled
spatial sharing of gpus for a scalable inference platform,” in ACM
Symposium on Cloud Computing, 2020, pp. 492–506.
[5] C. Zhao, W. Gao, F. Nie, and H. Zhou, “A survey of gpu multitasking
methods supported by hardware architecture,” IEEE Transactions on
Parallel and Distributed Systems, vol. 33, no. 6, pp. 1451–1463, 2021.
[6] B. Li, V. Gadepally, S. Samsi, and D. Tiwari, “Characterizing multi-
instance gpu for machine learning workloads,” in IEEE International
Parallel and Distributed Processing Symposium Workshops (IPDPSW).
IEEE, 2022, pp. 724–731.
[7] M. Pavlidakis, G. Vasiliadis, S. Mavridis, A. Argyros, A. Chazapis, and
A. Bilas, “Guardian: Safe gpu sharing in multi-tenant environments,” in
International Middleware Conference, 2024, pp. 313–326.
[8] X. Wei, Z. Li, and C. Tan, “Optimizing gpu sharing for container-based
dnn serving with multi-instance gpus,” in ACM International Systems
and Storage Conference, 2024, pp. 68–82.
[9] Y. Zhu, C. Wang, M. Calman, R. Nakazawa, and E. K. Lee, “Optimizing
gpu multiplexing for efficient and cost-effective access to diverse large
language models in gpu clusters,” in International Conference on
Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Computer and Telecommunication
Systems (MASCOTS).
IEEE, 2024, pp. 1–8.
[10] J. Qi, W. Xiao, M. Li, C. Yang, Y. Li, W. Lin, H. Yang, Z. Luan,
and D. Qian, “Elasticbatch: A learning-augmented elastic scheduling
system for batch inference on mig,” IEEE Transactions on Parallel and
Distributed Systems, 2024.
[11] T. Fu, Z. Yang, Z. Ye, C. Ma, Y. Han, Y. Luo, X. Wang, and Z. Wang,
“A survey on the scheduling of dl and llm training jobs in gpu clusters,”
Chinese Journal of Electronics, vol. 34, no. 3, pp. 881–905, 2025.
[12] Z. Ye, W. Gao, Q. Hu, P. Sun, X. Wang, Y. Luo, T. Zhang, and Y. Wen,
“Deep learning workload scheduling in gpu datacenters: A survey,” ACM
Computing Surveys, vol. 56, no. 6, pp. 1–38, 2024.
[13] B. Li, T. Patel, S. Samsi, V. Gadepally, and D. Tiwari, “Miso: exploiting
multi-instance gpu capability on multi-tenant gpu clusters,” in Sympo-
sium on Cloud Computing, 2022, pp. 173–189.
[14] B. Zhang, S. Li, and Z. Li, “Miger: Integrating multi-instance gpu
and multi-process service for deep learning clusters,” in International
Conference on Parallel Processing, 2024, pp. 504–513.
[15] M. Lee, S. Seong, M. Kang, J. Lee, G.-J. Na, I.-G. Chun, D. Nikolopou-
los, and C.-H. Hong, “Parvagpu: Efficient spatial gpu sharing for large-
scale dnn inference in cloud environments,” in International Conference
for High Performance Computing, Networking, Storage and Analysis.
IEEE, 2024, pp. 1–14.
[16] J. Villarrubia, L. Costero, F. D. Igual, and K. Olcoz, “Solving the
task scheduling and gpu reconfiguration problem on mig devices via
deep reinforcement learning,” Future Generation Computer Systems, p.
108145, 2025.
[17] Q. Weng, L. Yang, Y. Yu, W. Wang, X. Tang, G. Yang, and L. Zhang,
“Beware of fragmentation: Scheduling {GPU-Sharing} workloads with
fragmentation gradient descent,” in USENIX Annual Technical Confer-
ence, 2023, pp. 995–1008.
[18] H. Lao, R. Xu, L. Chen, and J. Zhang, “Cafgd: Reduce fragmentation
in large-scale multi-tenant clusters for gpu sharing workloads,” in IEEE
International Conference on Distributed Computing Systems (ICDCS).
IEEE, 2025, pp. 133–143.
[19] F. Lettich, E. Carlini, F. M. Nardini, R. Perego, and S. Trani, “Power-and
fragmentation-aware online scheduling for gpu datacenters,” in IEEE
International Symposium on Cluster, Cloud and Internet Computing
(CCGrid).
IEEE, 2025, pp. 43–52.
[20] A. Siavashi and M. Momtazpour, “A multi-objective framework for
optimizing gpu-enabled vm placement in cloud data centers with multi-
instance gpu technology,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.01909, 2025.
[21] B.
Turkkan,
P.
Murali,
P.
Harsha,
R.
Arora,
G.
Vanloo,
and
C. Narayanaswami, “Optimal workload placement on multi-instance
gpus,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.06646, 2024.
[22] NVIDIA, “Nvidia multi-instance gpu, seven independent instances in
a single gpu,” 2025. [Online]. Available: https://www.nvidia.com/en-
us/technologies/multi-instance-gpu/
