

===== PAGE 1 =====
Optimizing GPU Sharing for Container-Based DNN
Serving with Multi-Instance GPUs
Xinpeng Wei
Georgia Institute of Technology
Zhichao Li
ByteDance Inc.
Cheng Tan
Northeastern University
ABSTRACT
The trade-off of throughput versus latency is important in
serving deep neural networks (DNNs) on GPUs. A hardware
feature—Multi-Instance GPU (MIG)—provides an additional
dimension to this trade-off. This paper studies the GPU sharing
problem for serving DNNs with MIG. We propose a system
Jormungandr that allocates MIG-enabled GPUs to optimize
a user-define utility function, and places DNN serving con-
tainers on heterogeneous MIG instances. Jormungandr in-
troduces a utility-first search that yields efficient solutions in
practice. Additionally, it presents a robust transition protocol
that guarantees a seamless switch between two GPU-cluster
configurations, minimizing throughput fluctuations. We imple-
ment Jormungandr on Kubernetes. Our experiments show
that Jormungandr provides near-optimal solutions, using
< 6% more GPUs than the optimal solutions.
CCS CONCEPTS
• Computing methodologies →Machine learning.
KEYWORDS
Machine learning systems, Multi-Instance GPUs
1
INTRODUCTION
Throughput versus latency is a fundamental trade-off in com-
puter systems. People have intensively studied this trade-off
in many systems [23, 38, 41]. Serving deep neural networks
(also called DNN model inferences) is one of them. Serving
DNNs is a process of using trained models to make predictions
against unseen inputs. Unlike deep learning training, serving
DNN models is often a part of user-facing applications and
cares about throughput-latency trade-off.
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for
personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not
made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear
this notice and the full citation on the first page. Copyrights for components
of this work owned by others than the author(s) must be honored. Abstracting
with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or
to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a fee. Request
permissions from permissions@acm.org.
SYSTOR ’24, September 23–24, 2024, Virtual, Israel
© 2024 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to
ACM.
ACM ISBN 979-8-4007-1181-7/24/09...$15.00
https://doi.org/10.1145/3688351.3689156
GPU sharing plays a vital role in this trade-off: using ded-
icated GPUs provides minimal and stable latencies, but it
comes at the cost of low GPU utilization and low throughputs;
sharing GPUs increases GPU utilization and throughputs, but
with long and unpredictable tail latencies [32].
In the current cloud native environment (e.g., Machine
Learning as a Service), DNN services often run within contain-
ers [9, 12]. Then, GPU sharing can be framed as a resource al-
location problem: how to allocate (shared) GPUs to containers
that serve different DNN models. Note that resource allocation
is different from, but complementary to, scheduling. Resource
allocation systems—for example, HiveD [55], GSLICE [22],
Morphling [49]—make strategic, long-term decisions regard-
ing resource configurations for multiple services; whereas
DNN serving scheduling systems, like Clipper [21], Clock-
work [27], and Reef [29], focus on quick responses to workload
fluctuations like request spikes.
In this paper, we study DNN models that can benefit from
GPU sharing; for models that already exhaust GPU resources,
such as Large Language Models (LLMs), GPU sharing is not
advisable and therefore they are not the focus of this paper.
Resource allocation for serving GPU-shared DNN models
was easy, for two reasons.
(1) Model inference has stable and predictable performance.
This is observed by Gujarati et al. [27], and we confirmed
(§8). Serving a DNN model is a computational heavy task
and there is little non-determinism. In addition, serving
tasks usually solely occupies GPUs without worrying be-
ing interrupted by other tasks. Thus, profiling model per-
formance in the same environment is accurate to predict
model throughputs and latencies in production.
(2) People have few parameters to tune the trade-off. For a
model running on a given hardware and software setup,
people often use two approaches to trade off latencies
for higher throughputs: batching user requests and using
NVIDIA’s Multi-Process Service (MPS) [11], which en-
ables running multiple model instances simultaneously
on a GPU. Therefore, the search space is small; by de-
ciding the batch size and the number of MPS instances
(i.e., ⟨batch size, MPS⟩), the DNN model’s throughput
and latencies are determined.
Sharing GPUs has more choices when NVIDIA introduced
a hardware feature—Multi-Instance GPUs (MIG) [8]. MIG
allows developers to partition one GPU into multiple MIG
68


===== PAGE 2 =====
SYSTOR ’24, September 23–24, 2024, Virtual, Israel
Xinpeng Wei, Zhichao Li, and Cheng Tan
instances. Unlike MPS instances, different MIG instances are
hardware isolated in both performance and errors. For exam-
ple, NVIDIA A100 GPUs implement MIG, and one A100 can
be partitioned into as many as 7 MIG instances; each instance
accounts for 1/7 of the total resources. People can also parti-
tion A100 into heterogeneous instances, for example, three
instances with 1/7, 2/7, and 4/7 resources. MIG supports dy-
namic reconfiguration—one can partially re-partition a GPU
without having to stop other running instances. Section 2 in-
troduces MIG in more detail.
MIG adds a new trade-off dimension to the throughput-
latency trade-off, which brings the opportunity to improve the
“best trade-off points”—Pareto efficient solutions. Figure 1
9.5%
Figure 1: Pareto curves of a DNN
model, with and without MIG.
describes two Pareto
curves for running a
model on an A100
GPU, one with MIG
and one without MIG.
We try all possible con-
figurations and log the
throughput and average
latency of each configu-
ration. We can see that
(a) MIG provides many
more points on the Pareto curve, and (b) the Pareto efficient
solutions with MIG produce better throughputs than ones
without MIG: given similar latencies, the highest-throughput
point with MIG surpasses the non-MIG point by 9.5%. Fur-
thermore, the MIG-enabled configurations offer a superior
highest throughput (5% higher than non-MIG) owing to the
hardware performance isolation of MIG, which mitigates con-
tentions on GPU cache and bandwidth.
However, these improvements come at the cost of compli-
cating the resource allocation problem. In fact, MIG funda-
mentally changes the complexity of the problem. It turns out
that allocating MIG-enabled resources is a new abstract prob-
lem that we define as the Reconfigurable Machine Allocation
Problem (RMAP). RMAP is an NP-hard problem (§3.3).
Beyond theory, RMAP is also hard in practice. First, MIG
increases the search space exponentially, hence simple search
approaches no longer work. Consider a simple example of
serving one model on one GPU with MIG=[4/7,2/7,1/7] (this
is short for a GPU partition with a 4/7 instance, a 2/7 instance,
and a 1/7 instance). If the number of ⟨batch size, MPS⟩config-
urations is 𝑁, then it is 𝑁3 with MIG=[4/7,2/7,1/7]. Moreover,
these are heterogeneous MIG instances; thus, one likely re-
quires different configurations for different MIG instances.
Also, notice that MIG=[4/7,2/7,1/7] is one of 19 MIG parti-
tions [8], and this is just serving a single model on a single
GPU. Second, allocating MIG instances follow specific rules
and classic resource allocation policies (e.g., allocating CPUs,
memory, disk) are not applicable. For example, A100 does not
allow allocating 5/7 or 6/7 instances, and certain combinations
are prohibited such as MIG=[3/7,3/7,1/7]. Section 2 describes
these constraints.
In this paper, we introduce Jormungandr, a system that
allocates MIG-enabled GPUs for DNN serving containers.
Our goal is to help model owners explore the vast GPU con-
figurations and make the wanted throughput-latency trade-off.
In particular, users of our system can specify their objectives,
for example, having vgg19 throughput ≥1000 req/s while
keeping 99%-tile latency < 30ms. Then, Jormungandr au-
tomatically partitions GPUs and allocates MIG instances to
model containers to satisfy user objectives (called a deploy-
ment). When containers or user performance objectives get
updated, Jormungandr re-plans GPU configurations and is-
sues a robust transition, switching from the old configurations
to the new one. By “robust”, we mean that the transition will
never violate the performance constraints in users’ objectives
(e.g., the throughput of vgg19 should always be ≥1000 req/s).
Jormungandr consists of two main components: an alloca-
tor and a deployer. The allocator is responsible for generating
and optimizing GPU configurations. We introduce a utility-
first search algorithm that runs fast and can produce efficient
GPU configurations in practice. In our experiments (§8.2),
the utility-first search generates near-optimal solutions (using
< 6% more resources than the optimal solutions).
The deployer is in charge of applying the planned configu-
rations to GPUs. When the allocator produces a new deploy-
ment to incorporate changes, the deployer need to transition
GPU configurations without violating performance require-
ments. The deployer achieve this by running an exchange-
and-compact procedure. The exchange-and-compact splits
the transition into two phases—an exchange phase to update
each model’s MIG instances and a compact phase to repar-
tition GPUs—which detangles GPU partitioning and model
placement. The deployer also guarantees that during transi-
tions, model throughputs are always no less than either the
old deployment or the new deployment, whichever is smaller.
The contributions of this paper are as follows:
• A utility-first search to address a new GPU sharing problem
(§3, §4). We study the problem of allocating MIG-enabled
GPUs and define the problem in theoretical terms (§3). In
addition, we design a novel algorithm, utility-first search,
that runs fast and can produce efficient solutions in practice.
• A robust transition by exchange-and-compact (§6). We
design a solution to switch deployments that guarantees to
satisfy performance requirements.
• A built system and experimental evaluation (§6, §7, §8).
We implement Jormungandr on Kubernetes and address
multiple implementation challenges due to deficiency of
today’s tooling (§7). Further, we experiment with Jor-
mungandr on an eight A100 GPU cluster. Jormungandr
69


===== PAGE 3 =====
Optimizing GPU Sharing for Container-Based DNN Serving with Multi-Instance GPUs
SYSTOR ’24, September 23–24, 2024, Virtual, Israel
can save 30% of GPUs compared to using A100 disabling
MIG. Also, Jormungandr is able to finish deployment
transitions on real-world workloads within 1–2 minutes.
As a resource allocator, Jormungandr is applicable to
cloud native environments with multiple MIG-enabled GPUs.
For example, companies that run on-premises DNN models
can use Jormungandr to manage their GPU resources. When
deploying DNN models, deployers specify their objectives,
then Jormungandr automatically orchestrates containers on
the company’s shared GPUs. Another example is cloud Ma-
chine Learning as a Service (MLaaS). In this scenario, MLaaS
users upload or choose DNN models that run on cloud’s con-
tainers. The cloud provider then runs Jormungandr to opti-
mize GPU utilization meanwhile maintaining service QoS.
2
BACKGROUND: GPU SHARING
GPU sharing, also known as GPU multiplexing or spatial shar-
ing [20, 22], indicates the concurrent utilization of a physical
GPU by multiple DNN serving processes. In a container-based
setup, these processes can be distributed across multiple con-
tainers. Next, we introduce the two major GPU sharing meth-
ods, Multi-Instance GPU [8] and Multi-Process Service [11].
Multi-Instance GPU (MIG). MIG is a hardware feature that
allows users to partition a GPU into multiple instances. Each
MIG instance functions as a full-fledged GPU. This paper
targets A100 GPUs, which can be partitioned at maximum
into 7 instances of the same size. Other MIG-enabled GPUs
are NVIDIA A30, H100, and H200.
A100s allow heterogeneous partitions. For example, a GPU
can be partitioned into three instances with 1/7, 2/7, and 4/7
of the total resources each. In the rest of the paper, we call an
instance with 1/7 of total resources as a 1/7 instance (similarly
for instances of other sizes).
MIG is a hardware-based GPU sharing solution: instances
have separate streaming multiprocessors, GPU memory, and
L1/L2 cache. In addition, instances provide fault and perfor-
mance isolation by having dedicated on-chip crossbar ports,
memory controllers, and DRAM address buses. Essentially,
MIG instances are full-fledged GPUs, which are packed in the
same “metal box”.
Different from traditional resources, such as CPUs, disks,
and memory, MIG’s allocation follows specific rules. Having𝑛
units of free resources does not imply being able to allocate an
𝑛/7 instance. On the one hand, resources can only be grouped
into specific sized instances—1/7, 2/7, 3/7, 4/7, 7/7 instances,
whereas others (5/7 and 6/7 instances) are not allowed. On the
other hand, the existing instances also influence the possible
allocations. As an example, for a GPU with two running 3/7
instances, allocating a 1/7 instance is prohibited.
Figure 2 depicts the basic MIG allocation rules. But, there
are several exceptions. For example, “3/7 + 3/7” is possible
7/7 instance
1/7 
1/7 
1/7 
1/7 
1/7 
1/7 
1/7 
2/7 instance 
2/7 instance 
2/7 instance 
4/7 instance 
3/7 instance 
instance
choosing
Figure 2: Instance allocation rules, borrowed from NVIDIA’s
blog [7, Figure 1]. A legal A100 partition picks instances top-
down. If an instance is chosen (for example, the shaded 4/7 in-
stance), then all the instances beneath it are unavailable. As an
example, the shaded boxes represents a legal partition with a 4/7,
a 2/7, and a 1/7 instance.
in practice but is not shown in the figure. In total, there are
19 legal instance combinations for an A100 GPU (see the full
list in NVIDIA’s document [8]).
Multi-Process Service (MPS). NVIDIA MPS [11] serves as
a software solution to enable GPU sharing. It allows multiple
processes to transparently share a GPU without modifying
the applications. With MPS, developers have control over
computational resources at software level, allowing them to
configure the allocation of computation percentages to indi-
vidual processes. While MPS provides memory protection by
containing software exceptions, the protection is limited: fatal
GPU exceptions or errors in the MPS daemon will impact
all MPS processes on the same GPU, potentially crashing all
MPS processes on the GPU. Furthermore, MPS lacks the capa-
bility to set memory usage limits for different MPS processes
or isolate performance interference (e.g., contentions on GPU
cache and bandwidth).
3
MIG-ENABLED RESOURCE
ALLOCATION PROBLEM
Problem statement. In this paper, we assume a container-
based environment, in which all DNN serving processes run
within containers. Each container will be assigned a GPU (i.e.,
one MIG instance) and uses MPS to share the GPU across
multiple DNN serving processes. These processes will serve
end-user requests by running model serving software, such as
TensorFlow Serving [40], TorchServe [2], NVIDIA Triton [1].
To reduce the configuration space, we use homogeneous MPS
processes in a container: all MPS processes are dedicated to
serve one DNN model, and they use the same batch size. The
problem we study is to allocate GPU resources to containers,
such that they satisfy the required service-level objects.
Allocating MIG-enabled resources for serving DNN mod-
els is a new problem (formally defined in §3.3). It combines
partitioning MIG-enabled GPUs and allocating heterogeneous
MIG instances to containers. Moreover, the partitioning and
allocating are not isolated but intertwined; one have to solve
70


===== PAGE 4 =====
SYSTOR ’24, September 23–24, 2024, Virtual, Israel
Xinpeng Wei, Zhichao Li, and Cheng Tan
the two together to get efficient GPU configurations. Given
the problem (partitioning and allocating), our target is to op-
timize objectives that model deployers specify, for example,
maximizing throughputs while keeping tail latencies smaller
than a threshold. Model deployers use a utility function to
describe their objectives, which we discuss later (§4.2).
As a preview, this problem is computationally challenging
and is NP-Complete. Next, we discuss the challenges, from a
toy setup to more realistic ones.
3.1
Single GPU, Single Model
This is the simplest case where we serve only one DNN model
on one A100 GPU. There are three parameters: (a) MIG (i.e.,
how GPU is partitioned), (b) MPS (i.e., how many MPS in-
stances in each container), and (c) serving batch sizes. Batch
sizes define the maximum requests to serve at the same time,
which trade off latency for throughput; namely, the larger the
batch size, the higher the throughput and the longer the latency.
Because we use homogeneous MPS processes, batches sizes
within one container are the same.
Defining GPU configuration. In our problem, we define GPU
configuration as a tuple of the above three parameters. For ex-
ample, ⟨MIG=[3/7,3/7], MPS=[1,2], batch=[8,16]⟩is a GPU
configuration, meaning that the GPU allocates two 3/7 in-
stances; the first 3/7 instance container runs one MPS instance
with a batch size of 8; the second 3/7 instance container has
two MPS instances, both of which use 16 as the batch size.
For each GPU configuration, we can profile model perfor-
mance and record its throughput and a series of latencies (e.g.,
average, mean, 90%tile, 95%tile, 99%tile latencies).
Challenge 1: the number of GPU configurations is enormous
and searching for a desired GPU configuration is non-trivial.
For example, assume we limit MPS options to {1,2,4} and
batch sizes in {1,2,4,8,16,32} (we discuss the candidate batch
sizes in §10). Then, for a MIG=[2/7,2/7,1/7,1/7,1/7], the num-
ber of possible GPU configurations is (3 ∗6)5 ≈1.9Million.
The “3” and “6” are possible MPS options and batch sizes,
respectively; the “5” is the number of MIG instances. Notice
that MIG=[2/7,2/7,1/7,1/7,1/7] is one of 19 MIG partitions.
3.2
Multiple GPUs, Multiple Models
Next, we consider serving multiple models on a single GPU,
which we will later extend to multiple GPUs. The first diffi-
culty is that simple metrics (e.g., throughput) are uncompa-
rable across models. For example, a 1/7 instance can serve
vgg19 with 175 requests per second, while it can serve 400
requests for bert-base-cased (both with MPS=1 and batch
size of 8). The 175 req/s and 400 req/s are not comparable
because they are from different models.
Defining in-demand throughput. To compare across models,
we define a normalized throughput, called in-demand through-
put. In-demand throughput for a container (say with 1/7 in-
stance) is the throughput produced by the instance over the
demanded throughput. For example, if users require 2K req/s
for vgg19 and 8K req/s for bert-base-cased, then we say 1/7
instance can provide 0.0875 (=175/2K) in-demand throughput
for vgg19 or 0.05 (=400/8K) for bert-base-cased. So, we
prefer to run vgg19 on 1/7 instance because 0.0875 > 0.05.
Challenge 2: efficient GPU sharing across multiple models re-
quires accommodating different models’ performance charac-
teristics. For example, some model prefer small MIG instances,
while others prefer larger ones. For example, considering two
GPU configurations (assuming MPS=1 and batch size of 8):
(a) Config-1 allocates MIG=[1/7,2/7,4/7] with the 1/7 in-
stance running vgg19 and others running bert-base-cased;
(b) Config-2 allocates MIG=[1/7,1/7,1/7,1/7,3/7] with all 1/7
instances running bert-base-cased and the 3/7 instance run-
ning vgg19. It turns out that Config-1 has a total in-demand
throughput 0.29 (0.09 and 0.2 for vgg19 and bert-base-cased,
respectively), whereas Config-2 produces 0.48 (0.28 and 0.2)
that is strictly better than Config-1.
2
3
4
7
#slices
0
250
500
750
1000
throughput (req/s)
vgg19 [batch=8]
0
20
40
latency (ms)
2
3
4
7
#slices
0
200
400
600
800
throughput (req/s)
bert-base-cased [batch=8]
0
5
10
15
20
latency (ms)
Figure 3: Model throughputs and latencies of instances of differ-
ent sizes. The x-axis is the instance sizes, where “1” represents a
1/7 instance, and so forth. Bars represent throughputs of the cor-
responding instances; the line represents the 99%-tile latencies.
The reason why some GPU configurations are better than
others is that models have different characteristics. Figure 3
shows throughputs and latencies of different sized MIG in-
stances for vgg19 and bert-base-cased. We see that bert
prefers smaller instances because it cannot saturate computa-
tion resources of larger instances like 4/7 instances, whereas
vgg19 prefers larger instances. These different performance
characteristics are why Config-2 works better than Config-1.
Defining deployment. Finally, we consider the full-fledged
problem of allocating multiple GPUs for multiple models. We
define the allocation solution as a deployment: a deployment
is a set of GPU configurations (§3.1), each of which is a tuple
of ⟨MIG, MPS, batch sizes⟩. The multi-GPU, multi-model
problem combines the mentioned two challenges, leading to
an exponentially growing search space of deployments.
71


===== PAGE 5 =====
Optimizing GPU Sharing for Container-Based DNN Serving with Multi-Instance GPUs
SYSTOR ’24, September 23–24, 2024, Virtual, Israel
3.3
The Reconfigurable Machine Allocation
Problem
We describe the MIG-enabled resource allocation problem in
this section, which we abstract as the Reconfigurable Machine
Allocation Problem (short as RMAP). RMAP is a new abstract
problem and it is NP-hard.
RMAP is defined as follows. There are a set of jobs and
a set of machines; each machine can process one job at a
time; different machines have different processing time for
different jobs. Machines are reconfigurable: a set of machines
can be rearranged to a different set of machines, under some
pre-defined reconfiguration rules. And the goal is to find the
machine configurations and job assignments that optimize
some given objective, for example, maximizing throughputs
while satisfying job deadlines.
The problem that we focus on (namely, serving DNNs with
MIG) is an instance of RMAP. In our problem, GPU instances
are the machines; DNN model inferences are the jobs; different
models have different performance on instances of different
sizes (DNNs have different performance, §3.1). A set of in-
stances in one GPU can be re-partitioned to another set of
instances (a reconfiguration). The reconfiguration rules are
the MIG hardware restrictions (§2). Our goal is to find the
most efficient GPU partitions and service assignments that
optimize the user-defined utility function (defined in §4.2).
A new abstract problem. The Reconfigurable Machine Allo-
cation Problem is a new abstract problem. Resource allocation
and scheduling is a broad topic that has been intensively stud-
ied. There are many abstract problems that consider reconfig-
uration in several forms [15, 25, 33–35, 37, 53], but none of
them fully captures the characteristics of MIG. We compare
RMAP with the most relevant problems in section 9.
An NP-hard problem. Serving DNNs with MIG is an NP-
hard problem because another NP-hard problem, Cutting Stock
Problem [4], reduces to it. The cutting stock problem studies
how to cut standard-sized paper rolls into certain numbers of
specified-sized pieces while minimizing wasted material. This
problem reduces to our problem by treating the paper rolls as
GPUs, specified-sized pieces as instances of different sizes,
and the required piece numbers as demands. If one can find
the minimum number of GPUs for our problem, we have the
minimum paper rolls for the Cutting Stock Problem, which
minimizes the wasted materials.
4
SEARCHING EFFICIENT GPU
CONFIGURATIONS
In this section, we introduce an algorithm to discover effi-
cient solutions for allocating MIG-enabled resources, called
utility-first search. We first introduce a basic version (§4.1)
that maximizes throughputs while ensuring tail latencies are
smaller than a given threshold. Then, we generalize the utility-
first search to other objectives (§4.2).
4.1
Basic utility-first search
Utility function. The core idea of the utility-first search is to
use a utility function that enables comparing among different
configuration candidates, and meanwhile optimizes the user-
defined objective. For a GPU configuration, its utility function
is defined as follows:
utility(gconf, demands, weights) =
∑︁
model∈gconf
gconf[𝑚𝑜𝑑𝑒𝑙].𝑡ℎ𝑟𝑜𝑢𝑔ℎ𝑝𝑢𝑡
demands[model]
∗weights[model]
where
• gconf represents the performance of a GPU configuration,
encompassing throughput and latency for each model de-
ployed on this GPU;
• demands contain required throughput for each model de-
fined by users;
• weights consist of numbers ∈[0, 1], representing the weights
of each model, described below.
In our algorithm, the weights are defined as percentage
of unsatisfied required throughputs. For example, if vgg19
requires 2K req/s in total and 800 req/s have already been
satisfied, then the 𝑤𝑒𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡𝑠[vgg19] = (2𝐾−800)/2𝐾= 0.6.
In other words, the utility of a GPU configuration is the sum of
weighted in-demand throughputs (§3.1) of all served models.
This utility function captures three desired properties. First,
our objective is maximizing throughputs; for the same model,
the utility function is monotonically increasing according
to throughputs. Second, this utility function uses in-demand
throughput (§3.1) to compare across models. Finally, the util-
ity function prioritizes models that are less fulfilled, because
the weight design priorities models with large demands (hence
large weights), which are the ones with high resource require-
ments, indicating the need for careful allocations.
Profiling model performance. As mentioned (§1), serving
DNN models have stable performance, an observation made
by Gujarati et al. [27]. We confirm that given the same GPU
configurations, model throughputs vary < 3% across experi-
ments. Therefore, for a model, we can profile its throughput
and latencies—including average, mean, 90%tile, 95%tile,
99%tile latencies—and reuse them in utility-first search. Dur-
ing profiling, we do an exhaustive search on all container
configurations: (a) five MIG instances (1/7, 2/7, 3/7, 4/7, and
7/7 instances), (b) three options for container’s MPS processes
(1, 2, and 4 MPS processes), and (c) six batch sizes (1, 2, 4, 8,
16, and 32). In total, for each model, we conduct 90 (= 5×3×6)
profiling experiments, which takes tens of minutes to finish.
72


===== PAGE 6 =====
SYSTOR ’24, September 23–24, 2024, Virtual, Israel
Xinpeng Wei, Zhichao Li, and Cheng Tan
Basic algorithm. Figure 4 depicts the algorithm of utility-
first search. The basic algorithm is as follows. The algorithm
iteratively make decision for one GPU at a time. For each GPU,
the algorithm calculates utilities of all GPU configurations
from a set of candidates; the candidate set is pre-computed
and one GPU serves three models at most. Then, the algorithm
chooses the GPU configuration with the maximum utility for
this GPU. Utility-first search repeats this process until all
models’ demands are met.
In particular, the utility-first search begins by initializing a
set of possible GPU configurations (conf_set), each containing
up to three different models that meet required latency thresh-
olds. If a model’s configuration—for example, ⟨MIG=3/7,
MPS=2, batch=16⟩—fails the latency requirement, we will
remove it from conf_set. The algorithm then creates an empty
deployment list and maps model demands to their required
throughput. Weights are assigned to each model (initially 1),
and the algorithm iteratively configure each GPU. For each
GPU, the algorithm computes the utility of every configura-
tion in conf_set using the utility function (§4.1), which sums
the weighted throughput of models in the configuration. The
configuration with the maximum utility is then selected and
added to the deployment. If the algorithm satisfies all demands
or runs out of GPUs, it terminates.
Near-optimal deployment in practice. Utility-first search
performs well in practice. It can produce near-optimal solu-
tions in our experiments (§8). Here are some insights why it
works. First, though simple, the weighted utilities capture the
essence of the optimization problem: it prioritizes the configu-
rations that greatly satisfy user demands, meanwhile balances
the long-term allocations by using weights. Second, to manage
the large search space, we limit deployment to a maximum
of three different models per GPU. This limit is based on
empirical observations: serving at most two different models
sacrifices performance, while serving more than three causes
significant slowdowns, often resulting in the algorithm timing
out (10 minutes) when more than a dozen models are involved.
Finally, the utility-first search is a greedy algorithm that runs
fast but avoids the common pitfall of greedy algorithms, where
an early suboptimal choice can lead to irreparable outcomes.
This advantage arises because GPUs are interchangeable; a
poor decision for the first GPU has the same impact as one for
the last. This characteristic of the problem—DNN inferences—
happens to favor the algorithm.
Optimizations. We apply multiple optimizations to the utility-
first search, both for improving deployment efficiency and
algorithm runtime. First, we conduct a “last-mile mixing” for
better GPU configuration efficiency. The idea is that when
one model, such as vgg19, is close to reaching its required
throughput, we temporarily increase the number of different
models served on a single GPU by one. Since vgg19 will use
1: procedure UtilityFirstSearch(numGPU)
2:
conf_set ←a set of GPU configurations \
3:
that contains ≤3 models and have required tail latencies
4:
deployment ←an empty list of length numGPU
5:
demands ←a map from model to its required throughput
6:
7:
weights ←{𝑚𝑜𝑑𝑒𝑙1 : 1, ...}
// assign 1 for model weights
8:
for i in [1, ..., numGPU]:
9:
utils ←an empty map
10:
for conf ∈conf_set:
// calc utilities of all configs
11:
utils[conf] ←utility(conf, demands, weights) // ln 21
12:
best_conf ←pickConfig(utils)
// line 27
13:
14:
deployment[i] = best_conf
15:
for m ∈best_conf:
// update model weights (≥0)
16:
weights[m] −= 𝑚𝑖𝑛( best_conf[m].throughput
demands[m]
, weights[m])
17:
if sum(weights) = 0:
18:
return deployment
// find a valid solution
19:
return None
// run out of GPUs
20:
21: procedure utility(conf, demands, weights)
22:
util ←0
23:
for model ∈conf:
24:
util += conf[𝑚𝑜𝑑𝑒𝑙].throughput
demands[𝑚𝑜𝑑𝑒𝑙]
∗weights[𝑚𝑜𝑑𝑒𝑙]
// §4.1
25:
return util
26:
27: procedure pickConfig(utils)
28:
conf ←the config that has the max utility in utils
29:
return conf
Figure 4: Jormungandr’s utility-first search.
few resources at this stage, serving additional models is likely
to yield more efficient GPU configurations.
Second, utility-first search algorithm has some computa-
tional heavy loops, for example, looping all GPU configura-
tions to calculate their utilities (line 10–11, Figure 4). We
can vectorize these computation by organizing GPU config-
urations in a multi-dimensional array and computing their
utilities in batch. Jormungandr’s implement is in Python
(§7), so we use NumPy which leverages hardware SIMD (Sin-
gle Instruction Multiple Data) instructions.
Third, we cache GPU configurations to avoid repeated com-
putation. This cache is on disk and shared across different
executions. The cache is available for the algorithms that share
the same problem setup—the same DNN models, demands,
and algorithm parameters. Caching significantly accelerate
solving large problems.
4.2
Algorithm variants
Considering continuous allocations. The core algorithm
(Figure 4) does a one-shot allocation: it allocates GPU con-
figurations assuming all GPUs are empty. However, as we
will show later (§5), Jormungandr works continuously, and
73


===== PAGE 7 =====
Optimizing GPU Sharing for Container-Based DNN Serving with Multi-Instance GPUs
SYSTOR ’24, September 23–24, 2024, Virtual, Israel
allocator
deployer
deploymenti
transition plan
GPU cluster
…
monitoring data
(    )
throughput
time
epochi-1
…
epochi
Our system
demands
Figure 5: Jormungandr’s architecture.
GPUs are usually not empty. In practice, we might want to
sacrifice some GPU efficiency to minimize changes between
adjacent deployments, as repartitioning GPUs and migrating
models can be costly.
To incorporate this concern, Jormungandr tunes its GPU
configuration selecting policy. The default policy is to choose
the configuration that has the largest utility (line 27, Figure 4).
Instead, Jormungandr considers the top-K (𝐾= 10 by de-
fault) GPU configurations and picks the one that is similar to
some exiting configurations in the current deployment, so that
some containers can run untouched between two deployments.
Our similarity function is simple—we count the same MIG
instances between two GPU partitions; the higher, the better.
User-defined utility functions. By customizing the utility
function, the utility-first search can optimize objectives beyond
maximizing throughput. For instance, one could optimize
for latency by designing a utility function that favors shorter
mean and tail latencies while penalizing longer ones. Similarly,
a utility function can be crafted to balance throughput and
latency by combining throughput-focused and latency-focused
utility functions.
5
SYSTEM OVERVIEW
With utility-first search, we design and implement Jormungandr,
a cloud-native resource allocation system that automatically
orchestrates DNN serving containers on a cluster of MIG-
enabled GPUs. This section introduces Jormungandr’s ar-
chitecture and how Jormungandr works.
Architecture. Figure 5 depicts Jormungandr’s architecture.
Jormungandr has two main components: an allocator and a
deployer. At a high level, the allocator calculates an efficient
deployment for the required demands. The demands include
required throughputs from end-users’ needs and required tail
latencies that model owners specify. Later, the deployer im-
plements this deployment on GPUs without interrupting end
users. The allocator runs utility-first search (§4), and we will
introduce the deployer in section 6.
Workflow. When deployed on a MIG-enabled GPU cluster,
Jormungandr initializes its model performance data by pro-
filing models across various GPU configurations, specifically
profiling each model in all container setups (§4.1). To expedite
the profiling process, Jormungandr utilizes MIG to co-locate
the profiling of different models on the same GPU. This ini-
tialization typically takes several hours to complete for tens of
models. When adding a new model, Jormungandr performs
this initialization for the model before it can be served.
After initialization, Jormungandr works in epochs. In each
epoch, the allocator gets demands (i.e., required throughputs
and tail latencies) from the data collected from last epoch, and
produces a deployment that comprises new configurations for
all GPUs. A deployment is valid if it satisfies demands: for
each service, (i) the total throughput (from all instances) is
greater than or equal to the required throughput in demands,
and (ii) every instance’s tail latency is smaller than what re-
quired by demands. Jormungandr allows users to specify the
latency percentile; by default, it is 99%-tile.
Jormungandr then generates a transition plan that transfers
the GPU cluster from the last deployment to the new one. Tran-
sition plan includes a series of instructions to create, delete in-
stances, and repartition GPUs. When Jormungandr executes
this transition plan, end users (and the external world) should
not observe performance violations (for example, a model
offers a smaller throughput than its SLOs). After transition,
the GPU cluster moves to a new epoch. Next, we introduce
how Jormungandr achieves the transition.
6
DEPLOYMENT TRANSITION
In practice, DNN service demands (gathered from the last
epoch, §5) change from time to time. As a response, Jor-
mungandr periodically plans new deployments and switches
GPU clusters from an old deployment to a new one. Jor-
mungandr’s deployer is responsible for implementing these
deployment transitions. A naive transition approach is to sus-
pend all containers, repartition the underlying GPUs, and
then resume all containers. Of course, for user-facing services
like serving DNNs, this approach is unacceptable because all
services will be unavailable during transitions. Instead, the de-
ployer guarantees that the performance SLOs are not violated
during the transition by gradually migrating containers.
The deployer runs a transition protocol named exchange-
and-compact, which detangles (a) MIG requirement changes
(e.g., the new deployment replaces a 2/7 instance with a 4/7
instance for vgg19) and (b) GPU repartitions (e.g., the new de-
ployment needs a MIG=[3/7, 4/7] which does not exist in the
old deployment). The exchange-and-compact has two phases:
the first exchange phase focuses on the MIG instance changes,
74


===== PAGE 8 =====
SYSTOR ’24, September 23–24, 2024, Virtual, Israel
Xinpeng Wei, Zhichao Li, and Cheng Tan
and the second compact phase addresses GPU partition ad-
justments. The phase-wise design also provides the desired
robust transition by enabling partial transition at a time.
Exchange phase. The exchange phase adjusts the existing
MIG instances to the planned sizes by creating and deleting
containers, without repartitioning the GPUs. In particular, the
deployer calculates the differences in MIG instances between
the old and new deployments for each model, denoted as Δ𝑖
for the 𝑖𝑡ℎmodel. For example, Δ1 = [+4/7, −2/7] indicates
that the first model requires a new 4/7 instance and needs to
recycle an old 2/7 instance.
In each Δ𝑖, the deployer creates pairs of new and old MIG
instances; each pair contains a new MIG instance (e.g., +4/7)
and one or more old instances (e.g., −2/7), ensuring that the
throughput of the new instance is greater than or equal to that
of the old instances. The deployer then applies each pair by
first creating a container with the new MIG instance (using
extra GPUs if needed) and then deleting the old containers.
After processing all pairs, the deployer creates new containers
that could not be paired with old ones and deletes any remain-
ing old containers. Throughout the process, each model is
guaranteed to maintain its expected throughput1 because new
containers are always created before old ones are deleted.
Compact phase. With all MIG instances in the correct sizes,
the deployer needs to compact containers to eliminate GPU
fragmentation. The deployer achieve this by repartitioning
GPUs and migrating containers.
At the beginning of the compact phase, the deployer creates
a list of GPUs which are not fully occupied, denoted as 𝑆. If 𝑆
is not empty, the deployer selects a 𝐺𝑃𝑈𝑖∈𝑆and identifies
instances from other GPUs in 𝑆that, when combined, can satu-
rate 𝐺𝑃𝑈𝑖.2 The deployer then repartitions 𝐺𝑃𝑈𝑖and migrates
containers to 𝐺𝑃𝑈𝑖. For example, if 𝐺𝑃𝑈𝑖is currently run-
ning only a 4/7 instance container, then deployer can choose
a 2/7 instance container and a 1/7 instance container from
another 𝐺𝑃𝑈𝑗in 𝑆, repartitions 𝐺𝑃𝑈𝑖to “MIG=[4/7,2/7,1/7]”,
and migrates containers from 𝐺𝑃𝑈𝑗to 𝐺𝑃𝑈𝑖. The running
4/7 instance container is not interrupted due to MIG’s par-
tial repartition [8]. Finally, deployer removes 𝐺𝑃𝑈𝑖from 𝑆
because the 𝐺𝑃𝑈𝑖is now fully utilized. The deployer repeats
this process until finishing the new deployment.
7
IMPLEMENTATION
Jormungandr is implemented in Python and Kubernetes
(K8s). For the allocator, we implement the utility-first search
(§4) in Python and NumPy. We implement the deployer based
1The expected throughput is the throughput in either the old deployment or
the new one, whichever is smaller.
2The selction order is not important because the MIG instances of the same
size are identical, and the new deployment ensures that GPU configurations
exist to accommodate all instances.
on K8s [6]. Jormungandr’s actions—instance creation, dele-
tion, migration, and GPU partition—are wrappers of K8s
operations and MIG operations via nvidia-smi. The alloca-
tor uses 3300 lines of Python code. The deployer uses 800
lines of Python, Bash, and Go code.
Jormungandr uses a server-worker design where the allo-
cator (§4) and the deployer (§6) run on a server node that man-
ages a set of worker nodes. Periodically, the server sends ac-
tions (e.g., container creation and deletion) to workers. Work-
ers then executes K8s operations accordingly; workers are
machines have GPUs and serve end-users’ requests.
During implementing Jormungandr, we encounter mul-
tiple challenges due to limitations of Kubernetes (K8s) and
NVIDIA tools (nvidia-smi). We elaborate on them below.
Pinpointing MIG locations. When allocating MIG instances,
locations matter. For example, in the figure below, both 𝐺𝑃𝑈1
and 𝐺𝑃𝑈2 have two running 1/7 instances. 𝐺𝑃𝑈1 allows allo-
cating a 3/7 instance, but 𝐺𝑃𝑈2 does not (see partition con-
straints in Figure 2).
GPU1
GPU2
However, K8s only allows a container to configure which
MIG sizes it wants, without pinpointing the MIG location. The
container configuration is ambiguous when there are multiple
available MIG instances of the same size. To resolve this ambi-
guity, Jormungandr deletes MIG instances whenever they’re
empty and creates them only when creating a corresponding
K8s container. So, when a container requires a MIG instance,
there is only one available. This approach sacrifices oppor-
tunities of reusing MIG instances during transition for the
container of the same size. The rationale is that MIG instance
creation and deletions are cheap (<100ms, §8.3).
MIG instance rediscovery. In the compact phase, the de-
ployer need to repartition GPUs. But the device module of
K8s (nvidia-device-plugin) lacks the ability to rediscover
newly partitioned MIG instances. To make new partitions visi-
ble, the Jormungandr reboots the module to trigger its GPU
discovery procedure. Meanwhile, the deployer keeps actively
pulling the changes to shorten the waiting time. It turns out
that rediscoveries are the bottleneck of the deployment tran-
sition (§8.3). Each takes a few seconds to finish. In order to
reduce the number of rediscoveries, we batch instance cre-
ations and deletions on the same GPU whenever we can. So,
the discovery only need to happen once for all the changes.
Fast resource release. In the exchange phase, the deployer
frequently deletes K8s containers to release GPU resources.
However, a graceful K8s deletion (kubectl delete) is ex-
tremely slow. It usually takes tens of seconds to finish, which
is too expensive for Jormungandr. We observe that con-
tainers serving DNN models are stateless, meaning that “in-
elegant” deletions do not affect system’s correctness. Thus,
75


===== PAGE 9 =====
Optimizing GPU Sharing for Container-Based DNN Serving with Multi-Instance GPUs
SYSTOR ’24, September 23–24, 2024, Virtual, Israel
0
2000
4000
6000
8000
10000
time (s)
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
normalized throughput
gpt2
execution
transition
demands
expection
Figure 6: Normalized throughput of gpt2 during the 24-hour experiment. The solid line represents (“execution”) the observed model
throughputs; the dashed line indicates (“demands”) the demanded throughputs that we collect from production trace; the dotted line
represents (“expectation”) the expected throughputs calculated by the Jormungandr’s profiling data. The shaded areas are when
deployment transitions happen.
Jormungandr implement a vicious but fast deletion: when
deleting a K8s container, the deployer sends a SIGKILL signal
to the container process which instantly releases the GPU re-
sources, and then later recycles the container’s K8s metadata
and clear the error messages. This approach accelerates the
deletion by 30×, and the fast deletion finishes in less than 1s.
8
EXPERIMENTAL EVALUATION
In this section, we answer three main questions:
• How does Jormungandr perform in practice?
• How does the utility-first search perform, versus baselines?
• How long does Jormungandr take to complete a deploy-
ment transition, and how does that compare to baselines?
Workloads. We use two sets of workloads:
• Real-world workloads with five models: we collect 24
hour trace of five models from a production environment.
The five DNN models are bert-base-cased, resnet101,
albert-large-v2, resnet50 and gpt2. Note that we scale
down models’ throughputs to fit into our testbed while pre-
serving their throughputs’ relative amounts.
• Simulation workloads with 16 models: we further gener-
ate four workloads for 16 DNN models. In each workload,
models’ demand throughputs are generated from either
normal distributions (for two workloads) or lognormal dis-
tributions (for the other two workloads). Each workload re-
quires few hundreds of GPUs. These simulation workloads
serve as large workloads to test the algorithm performance.
Setup. We experiment with a four-machine GPU cluster that
has eight A100 GPUs on Google Cloud Platform. Our testbed
uses a2-highgpu-2g machines, each of which has 24 Intel
Cascade Lake cores, 170GB memory, and two NVIDIA A100
40GB GPUs. The OS is Debian 4.19. We use PyTorch v1.12.1
and CUDA 11.6 for DNN inferences, and K8s v1.23.6.
8.1
Serving DNN models in practice
To experiment if Jormungandr works as expected, we run a
“24-hour” experiment, under the real-world workloads, on our
cloud testbed. We set each Jormungandr epoch to be 1 hour,
so there will be 24 deployment transitions during the exper-
iment. Because containers do not change within one epoch,
we shorten the 1-hour normal running period (during which
Jormungandr is not involved) to 5 minutes to accelerate the
experiment. Within each epoch (now 5min), we collect the
throughputs and latencies of all models and record them as
the execution trace. The K8s containers serve DNN models in
a closed-loop to saturate the GPUs. Figure 6 shows the results
for one model, gpt2. Other models show similar results.
The 24-hour experiment last about 2.5 hours (i.e., 9000
seconds). The white areas in Figure 6 indicate normal epochs
with 5 minutes each; the shaded areas represent deployment
transitions whose running time varies because of different
deployments. Some adjacent deployments are similar while
others are vastly different.
By comparing the demanded (the dashed line) and expected
(the dotted line) throughputs in Figure 6, we see that Jor-
mungandr produce GPU configurations that provide just
enough resources to satisfy the demands. Also, the actual
throughputs (the solid line) overlap with the expected through-
puts, which confirms our observation that DNN inferences
have stable performance.
In each deployment transition (the shaded area in Figure 6),
we see that the line of the actual throughput never drops be-
low the smaller throughput between the old and new deploy-
ments. This demonstrates that the deployer can guarantee no
performance violations during transitions. We further study
transition procedures in section 8.3.
76


===== PAGE 10 =====
SYSTOR ’24, September 23–24, 2024, Virtual, Israel
Xinpeng Wei, Zhichao Li, and Cheng Tan
hr-1
hr-2
hr-3
hr-4
hr-5
hr-6
hr-7
hr-8
hr-9 hr-10 hr-11 hr-12 hr-13 hr-14 hr-15 hr-16 hr-17 hr-18 hr-19 hr-20 hr-21 hr-22 hr-23
workloads
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
#GPUs
(lower is better)
A100-7/7
A100-7x1/7
A100-MIX
Ours
lower-bound
Figure 7: Number of GPUs used by algorithms for different real-world workloads. “A100-7/7”, “A100-7×1/7”, and “A100-MIX” are the
three static allocation baselines; “Ours” represents the utility-first search; “lower-bound” is the minimal number of GPUs ignoring
constraints.
normal-1
normal-2 lognormal-1lognormal-2
workloads
0.6
0.8
1.0
normalized #GPUs
(lower is better)
145
160
218
194
A100-7/7
A100-7x1/7
A100-MIX
Ours
lower-bound
Figure 8: Number of GPUs used by algorithms for four simula-
tion workloads. The numbers are normalized cluster-wise for
each workload. The absolute numbers of Jormungandr used
GPUs are given.
8.2
Utility-first search performance
Baselines. We compare the utility-first search with two cate-
gories of baselines:
• Static GPU partitions: (1) A100-7×1/7, partitioning all
GPUs into 1/7 instances, (2) A100-7/7, using A100 GPUs
as-is, and (3) A100-MIX, using MIG=[4/7,2/7,1/7] for all
A100s, and scheduling one model on one GPU. A100-7/7
uses GPU the traditional way (ignoring MIG). A100-MIX
represents heterogeneous setup but does not serve different
models on the same GPU.
• Lower-bound estimation: To see how well Jormungandr
performs compared to the optimal solution (which is com-
putationally expensive to get), we calculate an approxi-
mate optimality—a lower bound of GPU usage by ignoring
MIG’s hardware constraints. In particular, we assume that
GPUs are continuous resources, for example, allowing to
allocate 0.1 share of a 1/7 instance. Notice that the lower
bound is impossible to achieve.
Static GPU partitions represent today’s MIG usage: develop-
ers partition GPUs first, and then statically assign each MIG
instances to containers. The lower-bound estimation is used to
show how close utility-first search’s solutions to the optimal
solutions. Lower-bound’s solutions are invalid in practice. We
also discuss other possible baselines in section 10.
In this section, we study how utility-first search performs
compared to baselines.
Real-world workloads. We run Jormungandr and the base-
lines on the real-world workloads and count the number of
GPUs they use. Figure 7 shows the results. Jormungandr uses
fewer GPUs than other baselines. Moreover, Jormungandr
is close to the optimal allocation—the largest gap to the lower
bound is using one more GPU.
Simulation workloads. The workloads used are the four simu-
lation workloads generated from normal and lognormal distri-
butions, denoted as normal-1, normal-2, lognormal-1, and
lognormal-2. We design the four workloads to use one to
two hundreds of GPUs, representing a large-scale GPU cluster.
There are 16 models included in all four workloads. Figure 8
shows the results. For all four workloads, Jormungandr’s so-
lutions are close to the lower-bound estimation: Jormungandr
uses < 6% more GPUs than the lower-bound, whereas other
solutions all use > 20% more GPUs and A100-7×1/7 some-
times uses 40% more GPUs. Compared with static partition
baselines, Jormungandr can save up to 38% GPUs with an
average saving of 22%
8.3
Deployment transition
In the 24-hour experiment (§8.1), there are 24 deployment
transitions. In this section, we want to take a closer look at
how Jormungandr applies these transitions.
End-to-end transition runtime. We measure the wall-clock
time of Jormungandr’s deployment transitions. Figure 9
shows the results. Most of the transitions finish within 2 min-
utes. In particular, the transition of “18->19”’ uses zero sec-
ond because the deployments designed by the allocator are
the same (the SLOs are similar for the two epochs).
77


===== PAGE 11 =====
Optimizing GPU Sharing for Container-Based DNN Serving with Multi-Instance GPUs
SYSTOR ’24, September 23–24, 2024, Virtual, Israel
NULL->0
0->1
1->2
2->3
3->4
4->5
5->6
6->7
7->8
8->9
9->10
10->11
11->12
12->13
13->14
14->15
15->16
16->17
17->18
18->19
19->20
20->21
21->22
22->23
23->0
0
50
100
150
transition time (s)
restart plugin
start pods
delete pods
Figure 9: Jormungandr’s transition time breakdown. The “restart plugin” represents the time Jormungandr spent on rebooting K8s
device module; the “start pod” and “delete pod” indicate the time spent on creating and deleting instances, respectively. The “X->Y” on
x-axis represents the transition from the deployment of hour “X” to the hour “Y” in our 24-hour experiment.
NULL->0
0->1
1->2
2->3
3->4
4->5
5->6
6->7
7->8
8->9
9->10
10->11
11->12
12->13
13->14
14->15
15->16
16->17
17->18
18->19
19->20
20->21
21->22
22->23
23->0
0
10
20
action counts
19
4
1
7
4
1
2
5
1
8
6
5
6
4
6
7
6
5
6
0
7
5
6
9
7
0
3
1
10
2
0
4
2
1
10
4
8
8
5
4
9
5
6
6
0
7
3
1
10
6
1
4
1
5
3
0
2
3
1
5
4
3
4
3
4
5
4
5
4
0
6
3
2
6
5
start pods
delete pods
restart plugin
Figure 10: Operation counts during deployment transitions.
mig creation
mig deletion
restart plugin
create pods
delete pods
K8s pod deletion
(deprecated)
10−1
100
101
runtime (s)
0.043
0.109
4.324
0.12
1.092
32.277
Figure 11: The average runtime of each transition operation. The
y-axis is in log scale.
We further decompose each transition runtime into time
spent on different components: rebooting the K8s device mod-
ule, creating K8s pods, and deleting K8s pods. We find that
rebooting K8s module is the slowest. Our near future work is
to implement a native device recovery for K8s. By further anal-
ysis, it turns out that K8s’ creation is also expensive because
K8s needs to bootstrap a container on a MIG instance. We
believe DNN context switch techniques, like Pipeswitch [16],
can significantly reduce this overhead.
A closer look at transitions. To understand the details of
the transitions, we record the number of actions issued by
Jormungandr and summarize them in in Figure 10. Except
for the first transition when the GPU cluster is empty, other
transitions have balanced number of three operations. Com-
pared with the runtime of these operations (Figure 9), we see
that pod deletions are fast, confirming Jormungandr’s fast
resource release optimization (§7).
transition id
nos
ours
speedup
NULL->0
37.4
29.1 (29.1)
1.3× (1.3×)
3->4
78.9
70.4 (70.4)
1.1× (1.1×)
5->6
106.5
48.1 (48.1)
2.2× (2.2×)
22->23
215.9
151.2 (151.2)
1.4× (1.4×)
23->0
88.6
132.4 (66.4)
0.7× (1.3×)
Figure 12: Transition time in seconds for nos and exchange-and-
compact (“ours”). For a fair comparison, we also list runtime of
exchange-and-compact without compact in the parentheses.
Transition baseline: Nebuly Operating System. To the best
of our knowledge, Nebuly Operating System (nos) [10] is the
only system that manages MIG-enabled GPUs. It supports
dynamic GPU partitions for MIG and MPS, as well as elas-
tic resource quota management. We use nos as the baseline
for the deployment transition. Because nos does not support
“compact”, meaning that nos may use more GPUs than our
system, we implement a version of exchange-and-compact that
does not apply compaction. Figure 12 depicts the transition
runtime for nos and Jormungandr (w/ and w/o compaction).
For the first three transitions (“NULL->0”, “3->4”, “5->6”),
there is no need for compaction. Jormungandr accelerate
nos by 1.1–2.2×. For the transition “22->23”, there is a slight
compaction, which doesn’t affect much about the performance.
Finally, the transition “23->0” has a heavy compaction because
deployment changes significantly. If considering compaction,
Jormungandr is slower than nos but uses fewer GPUs; if ig-
noring compaction (Jormungandr will use the same number
of GPUs as nos), Jormungandr is 1.3× faster than nos.
Transition actions. During a transition, the deployer has five
types of actions: MIG creation and deletion, K8s pod creation
and deletion, and rebooting K8s device module. We measure
78


===== PAGE 12 =====
SYSTOR ’24, September 23–24, 2024, Virtual, Israel
Xinpeng Wei, Zhichao Li, and Cheng Tan
each of their runtime and show results in Figure 11. In this
experiment, we run these actions 10 times in a synchronous
manner—we issue an action and wait until it finishes.
9
RELATED WORK
GPU sharing. There is a line of work [20, 22, 28, 46, 49, 51,
54] studying GPU sharing for serving DNNs. They assume
different setups. INFaaS [46] considers a model-less setup in
which systems can substitute one model with similar models
having the same functionality. Cocktail [28] allows an ensem-
ble of models to serve user requests. GSLICE [22] uses MPS
to share GPUs with an adaptive batching for models. Jor-
mungandr targets cloud native environment and is compati-
ble to Kubernetes. Unlike prior GPU sharing, Jormungandr
considers a recent hardware feature, MIG. It turns out that
sharing MIG-enabled GPUs is a harder problem (§3.3).
Resource allocation. Resource allocation [14, 31, 42] is a
broach topic that have many variants. Allocating MIG-enabled
GPUs is a new problem (§3.3) that combines three character-
istics: (a) instance performance does not grow linearly with
additional resources (§3.1), (b) MIG-enabled GPUs follow
restricted reconfiguration rules (§2), and (c) MIG supports
partial reconfiguration. Traditional resource allocation meth-
ods do not address all these characteristics. For example, CPU
allocators usually assume cores are identical, hence violates
(a). Memory allocators assume a continuous set of pages can
be allocated together, contradicting (b). Reconfigurable Ma-
chine Tools (RMTs) [35] allows rearranging machines, but
must work in a fixed-sized reconfigurable unit, ignoring (c).
A recent work Partitioned Optimization Problems (POP) [39]
addresses difficult resource allocation problems by randomly
splitting the original problem into smaller ones, solving smaller
problems separately, and coalescing the results. POP requires
the targeted problem satisfying four conditions, one of which
needs the resources to be “fungible” [39, §2, Condition 3].
But in our problem, resources are not fungible because a unit
of resource contributes differently in different sized instances.
Scheduling problem. Scheduling problems [45] have been
well-studied by multiple communities. Some of them are re-
lated to our problem. The problem UPM [45] (Unrelated Par-
allel Machine Scheduling Problem) tackles different sized
instances have different performance, but it requires a fixed
set of machines and does not capture MIG’s reconfigura-
bility. As mentioned, problems with RMTs [35] (Reconfig-
urable Machine Tools) address GPU’s reconfigurability. Ex-
amples are FJSSP-CDST [37] and permutation flow shop
plus RMTs [15]. But they do not support partial reconfig-
uration because RMTs have fixed-sized reconfigurable units.
The problem DCSP [25, 34] (Discrete-Continuous Scheduling
Problem) handles partial reconfiguration, but it requires the
resources to be continuous (like power). But GPU has discrete
resources (namely, GPU SMs and memory banks) and their
allocation is restricted by MIG hardware constraints (§2).
Partial reconfiguration. Similar to MIG-enabled GPUs, FPGA
also supports partial reconfiguration [3]. A classic reconfig-
urable device model is the 2D resource model [48, 50] which
abstracts a job with two constraints, width and height, rep-
resenting the runtime and spatial constraints. The 2D model
targets a similar but different problem: a job in the model has
a fixed width and height, which in our context means that a
service can use one fixed-sized GPU instance.
DNN serving systems. Traditional DNN serving systems—
for example, Tensorflow-serving [40], TorchServe [2], Clip-
per [21]—mainly focus on optimizing the performance for a
single service instance, whereas Jormungandr works on a
layer below their abstraction: Jormungandr targets planning
resource allocation hence is complementary to them; these
frameworks can run in containers created by Jormungandr.
Another thread of DNN serving systems [17, 24, 27, 46, 47]
aims at different workloads or specific DNN models. Though,
conceptually, Jormungandr are complementary to these sys-
tems and can run beneath them, it requires further research
to unleash the full potential of combining both systems. For
example, BatchMaker [24] improves RNN’s inference perfor-
mance by cellular batching. Similarly, Nexus [47] accelerates
DNN serving by batching requests partially across different
DNN models. Because the acceleration of these systems de-
pends on how much portion of requests can be batched, serv-
ing performance varies with workloads. This is a challenge
for Jormungandr as our algorithms require stable perfor-
mance as inputs. Likewise, Clockwork [27] requires the full
control over the execution stack to achieve predicable infer-
ence latency, whose scheduling decisions may conflict with
Jormungandr’s.
DNN training resource allocation. Allocating resources for
DNN training, especially distributed training, has been inten-
sively studied [19, 26, 36, 43, 44, 52, 55]. Jormungandr only
targets DNN serving because MIG’s GPU instances cannot
use NVLink or NVSwtich to communicate [5]. This prohibits
MIG from being used for multi-GPU training. If NVIDIA en-
ables NVLink and NVSwitch for MIG, then it is an interesting
and open problem of how to use MIG for training.
10
DISCUSSION
Assumptions. Jormungandr operates under several assump-
tions. First, we assume there are enough GPUs to meet the
Service Level Objectives (SLOs). If this assumption fails, the
utility-first search will terminate without producing a valid
deployment (Figure 4, line 19), at which point Jormungandr
will alert the user without altering the current deployment. A
79


===== PAGE 13 =====
Optimizing GPU Sharing for Container-Based DNN Serving with Multi-Instance GPUs
SYSTOR ’24, September 23–24, 2024, Virtual, Israel
similar outcome occurs if the transition (§6) lacks sufficient
GPUs to complete. Second, we assume that out-of-memory
errors will be detected during profiling. If a model runs out
of memory with a given GPU configuration, we expect to
identify this issue during profiling. Third, we assume that
performance profiling is accurate, as observed by Gujarati et
al. [27] and corroborated by our experiments. If this fails, then
Jormungandr may violate SLOs.
Jormungandr as a resource allocator. As mentioned (§1),
Jormungandr functions as an allocator, distinct from but com-
plementary to schedulers and load balancers. Jormungandr
relies on a load balancer to dispatch requests to containers
and address request fluctuation. What Jormungandr guaran-
tees, assuming the above assumptions, is that when the instant
requested throughput does not exceed the SLOs, the serv-
ing latency will meet the SLOs. For example, if the request
rate is lower than the expected throughput, the serving soft-
ware will batch fewer requests, resulting in better turnaround
time. Conversely, if there is a spike in requests exceeding the
SLO-defined throughput, the load balancer—such as K8S Au-
toscaler [13]—will need to temporarily allocate additional
containers and GPUs.
Tuning Jormungandr. Jormungandr involves several trade-
offs which can be adjusted by tuning its parameters. For in-
stance, it uses {1, 2, 4} as MPS options and batch sizes from
{1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32}. These MPS and batch size options can be
added or removed, according to the specific use cases. In gen-
eral, removing options decreases the likelihood of achieving
optimal GPU utilization but increases the algorithm’s speed.
When to trigger transitions. Jormungandr initiates deploy-
ment transitions when adding, removing, or updating models,
as well as periodically (by default, every hour). The trade-off
lies in the frequency of these transitions: frequent transitions
optimize immediate GPU utilization but incur higher transi-
tion costs, while infrequent transitions reduce costs but may
not adequately meet real-time user demands. Beyond transi-
tion frequency, using continuous allocation (§4.2) can also
reduce transition costs, albeit at the expense of deploying
suboptimal GPU configurations.
Deploying Jormungandr on MIG-disabled GPUs. MIG is
only available on a limited number of GPU types [8], includ-
ing NVIDIA A30, A100, H100, and H200. However, many
other GPU types do not support this hardware feature. Despite
this, Jormungandr remains functional on clusters with both
MIG-enabled and MIG-disabled GPUs by omitting MIG op-
tions from GPU configurations that do not support MIG. For
example, an NVIDIA A5000 would have a configuration of
⟨MIG=[], MPS=[1,2], batch=[8,16]⟩. The utility-first search
(Figure 4, §4) remains unchanged, except that the “conf_set”
(Figure 4, line 3) include the mentioned MIG-disabled GPU
configurations. In a GPU cluster without any MIG devices,
Jormungandr may not perform as efficient, as it does not fully
explore the potential search space, such as running different-
sized MPS on the same GPU. Existing systems [20, 30] could
perform better in this scenario.
Other solutions to RMAP. Finding solutions to the Recon-
figurable Machine Allocation Problem (§3.3) is challenging,
primarily because we are among the first to study this prob-
lem in a practical context. Recent theoretical work [18] has
highlighted the inherent difficulty of the problem, showing
that so far, the best achievable result is an asymptotic (2+𝜖)-
approximation in polynomial time. However, despite being
polynomial, this algorithm is not fast enough for practical
use. We have also explored several alternative approaches,
including exhaustive search, using heuristics to configuring
MIG, formulating the problem as a linear programming or
SMT problem, and using a solver like Z3 to solve it. Unfortu-
nately, all these methods are either too slow or produce results
inferior to our current solution. In addition, the past schedul-
ing systems are orthogonal to MIGs hence hard to compare
apples-to-apples with Jormungandr.
Number of MIG instances. Currently, Jormungandr is ef-
fective because the number of possible MIG configurations
remains manageable: with 7 MIG slices, there are 19 dis-
tinct MIG partitions. However, as the number of MIG slices
increases, the number of possible partitions will grow expo-
nentially. If the number of MIG slices doubles or triples, the
current approach will become intractable. At that point, we
will need new strategies to conduct more efficient searches.
Profiling versus performance estimation. Jormungandr
uses profiling (§4.1) to gather performance data for differ-
ent models across various GPU configurations. Profiling a
model on all configurations—encompassing different MIG
sizes, MPS numbers, and batch sizes—typically takes tens
of minutes. To accelerate this process, one can estimate or
predict model performance through simulation. However, in
our targeted setup, where companies often use a model for a
long period of time, accurate profiling is worth the time.
11
CONCLUSION
This paper studies how to use a new hardware feature MIG for
DNN serving. Because of MIG’s characteristics, we find that
the problem of allocating MIG-enabled GPUs is a new abstract
problem, which we define as the Reconfigurable Machine Al-
location Problem. To solve this problem, we introduce a utility-
first search that produces near-optimal solutions in practice.
Further, we design and implement a system, Jormungandr,
that produces valid deployments and implement them transpar-
ently to GPUs. Evaluation shows that Jormungandr signifi-
cantly outperforms baselines that statically partition A100s.
80


===== PAGE 14 =====
SYSTOR ’24, September 23–24, 2024, Virtual, Israel
Xinpeng Wei, Zhichao Li, and Cheng Tan
REFERENCES
[1] NVIDIA Triton.
https://developer.nvidia.com/nvidia-triton-inference-server.
[2] TorchServe. https://pytorch.org/serve/.
[3] Vivado Design Suite User Guide Partial Reconfiguration.
https://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation/sw_manuals/
xilinx2018_1/ug909-vivado-partial-reconfiguration.pdf, 2018.
[4] Cutting stock problem.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cutting_stock_problem, 2021.
[5] Fabric Manager for NVIDIA NVSwitch Systems.
https://docs.nvidia.com/datacenter/tesla/pdf/fabric-manager-user-
guide.pdf, 2021.
[6] Kubernetes Controllers.
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/architecture/controller/, 2021.
[7] Minimizing Deep Learning Inference Latency with NVIDIA
Multi-Instance GPU. https://developer.nvidia.com/blog/minimizing-
dl-inference-latency-with-mig/, 2021.
[8] NVIDIA Multi-Instance GPU User Guide. https://docs.nvidia.com/
datacenter/tesla/pdf/NVIDIA_MIG_User_Guide.pdf, 2021.
[9] AWS Deep Learning Containers.
https://aws.amazon.com/machine-learning/containers/, 2023.
[10] Nebuly Operating System (nos). https://github.com/nebuly-ai/nos,
2023.
[11] NVIDIA Multi-Process Service.
https://docs.nvidia.com/deploy/mps/index.html, 2023.
[12] Use Deep Learning VM Images and Deep Learning Containers with
Vertex AI.
https://cloud.google.com/vertex-ai/docs/general/deep-learning, 2023.
[13] Kubernetes Autoscaler. https://github.com/kubernetes/autoscaler,
2024.
[14] A. Ahmad, S. Ahmad, M. H. Rehmani, and N. U. Hassan. A survey on
radio resource allocation in cognitive radio sensor networks. IEEE
Communications Surveys & Tutorials, 17(2):888–917, 2015.
[15] A. Azab and B. Naderi. Modelling the problem of production
scheduling for reconfigurable manufacturing systems. Procedia CIRP,
33:76–80, 2015.
[16] Z. Bai, Z. Zhang, Y. Zhu, and X. Jin. Pipeswitch: Fast pipelined
context switching for deep learning applications. In Proc. OSDI, 2020.
[17] A. Balasubramanian, A. Kumar, Y. Liu, H. Cao, S. Venkataraman, and
A. Akella. Accelerating deep learning inference via learned caches.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2101.07344, 2021.
[18] M. Casey, R. Rajaraman, D. Stalfa, and C. Tan. Scheduling splittable
jobs on configurable machines. arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.05416,
2023.
[19] S. Chaudhary, R. Ramjee, M. Sivathanu, N. Kwatra, and S. Viswanatha.
Balancing efficiency and fairness in heterogeneous gpu clusters for
deep learning. In Proceedings of the Fifteenth European Conference on
Computer Systems, 2020.
[20] S. Choi, S. Lee, Y. Kim, J. Park, Y. Kwon, and J. Huh. Serving
heterogeneous machine learning models on {Multi-GPU} servers with
{Spatio-Temporal} sharing. In 2022 USENIX Annual Technical
Conference (USENIX ATC 22), pages 199–216, 2022.
[21] D. Crankshaw, X. Wang, G. Zhou, M. J. Franklin, J. E. Gonzalez, and
I. Stoica. Clipper: A low-latency online prediction serving system. In
Proc. NSDI, 2017.
[22] A. Dhakal, S. G. Kulkarni, and K. Ramakrishnan. Gslice: controlled
spatial sharing of gpus for a scalable inference platform. In
Proceedings of the 11th ACM Symposium on Cloud Computing, pages
492–506, 2020.
[23] J. Fried, Z. Ruan, A. Ousterhout, and A. Belay. Caladan: Mitigating
interference at microsecond timescales. In 14th USENIX Symposium
on Operating Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI 20), pages
281–297, 2020.
[24] P. Gao, L. Yu, Y. Wu, and J. Li. Low latency rnn inference with
cellular batching. In Proc. EuroSys, 2018.
[25] M. Gorczyca, A. Janiak, and W. Janiak. The discrete part of the
discrete-continuous scheduling problems-new properties. IFAC
Proceedings Volumes, 42(13):244–249, 2009.
[26] J. Gu, M. Chowdhury, K. G. Shin, Y. Zhu, M. Jeon, J. Qian, H. Liu,
and C. Guo. Tiresias: A {GPU} cluster manager for distributed deep
learning. In Proc. NSDI, 2019.
[27] A. Gujarati, R. Karimi, S. Alzayat, W. Hao, A. Kaufmann,
Y. Vigfusson, and J. Mace. Serving dnns like clockwork: Performance
predictability from the bottom up. In Proc. OSDI, 2020.
[28] J. R. Gunasekaran, C. S. Mishra, P. Thinakaran, B. Sharma, M. T.
Kandemir, and C. R. Das. Cocktail: A multidimensional optimization
for model serving in cloud. In USENIX NSDI, pages 1041–1057, 2022.
[29] M. Han, H. Zhang, R. Chen, and H. Chen. Microsecond-scale
preemption for concurrent {GPU-accelerated}{DNN} inferences. In
16th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and
Implementation (OSDI 22), pages 539–558, 2022.
[30] Z. Han, R. Zhou, C. Xu, Y. Zeng, and R. Zhang. Inss: An intelligent
scheduling orchestrator for multi-gpu inference with spatio-temporal
sharing. IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems, 2024.
[31] J. G. Herrera and J. F. Botero. Resource allocation in nfv: A
comprehensive survey. IEEE Transactions on Network and Service
Management, 13(3):518–532, 2016.
[32] P. Jain, X. Mo, A. Jain, H. Subbaraj, R. S. Durrani, A. Tumanov,
J. Gonzalez, and I. Stoica. Dynamic space-time scheduling for gpu
inference. arXiv preprint arXiv:1901.00041, 2018.
[33] K. Jansen, A. Lassota, and M. Maack. Approximation algorithms for
scheduling with class constraints. In Proceedings of the 32nd ACM
Symposium on Parallelism in Algorithms and Architectures, pages
349–357, 2020.
[34] J. Józefowska, M. Mika, R. Różycki, G. Waligóra, and J. Węglarz.
Solving discrete-continuous scheduling problems by tabu search. In
4th Metaheuristics International Conference MIC, pages 16–20, 2001.
[35] R. G. Landers, B.-K. Min, and Y. Koren. Reconfigurable machine tools.
CIRP Annals, 50(1):269–274, 2001.
[36] K. Mahajan, A. Balasubramanian, A. Singhvi, S. Venkataraman,
A. Akella, A. Phanishayee, and S. Chawla. Themis: Fair and efficient
{GPU} cluster scheduling. In Proc. NSDI, 2020.
[37] M. Mahmoodjanloo, R. Tavakkoli-Moghaddam, A. Baboli, and
A. Bozorgi-Amiri. Flexible job shop scheduling problem with
reconfigurable machine tools: An improved differential evolution
algorithm. Applied Soft Computing, 94:106416, 2020.
[38] S. McClure, A. Ousterhout, S. Shenker, and S. Ratnasamy. Efficient
scheduling policies for {Microsecond-Scale} tasks. In 19th USENIX
Symposium on Networked Systems Design and Implementation (NSDI
22), pages 1–18, 2022.
[39] D. Narayanan, F. Kazhamiaka, F. Abuzaid, P. Kraft, A. Agrawal,
S. Kandula, S. Boyd, and M. Zaharia. Solving large-scale granular
resource allocation problems efficiently with pop. In Proc. SOSP, 2021.
[40] C. Olston, N. Fiedel, K. Gorovoy, J. Harmsen, L. Lao, F. Li,
V. Rajashekhar, S. Ramesh, and J. Soyke. Tensorflow-serving: Flexible,
high-performance ml serving. arXiv preprint arXiv:1712.06139, 2017.
[41] A. Ousterhout, J. Fried, J. Behrens, A. Belay, and H. Balakrishnan.
Shenango: Achieving high {CPU} efficiency for latency-sensitive
datacenter workloads. In 16th USENIX Symposium on Networked
Systems Design and Implementation (NSDI 19), pages 361–378, 2019.
[42] M. Patriksson. A survey on the continuous nonlinear resource
allocation problem. European Journal of Operational Research,
185(1):1–46, 2008.
81


===== PAGE 15 =====
Optimizing GPU Sharing for Container-Based DNN Serving with Multi-Instance GPUs
SYSTOR ’24, September 23–24, 2024, Virtual, Israel
[43] Y. Peng, Y. Bao, Y. Chen, C. Wu, and C. Guo. Optimus: an efficient
dynamic resource scheduler for deep learning clusters. In Proc.
EuroSys, 2018.
[44] Y. Peng, Y. Zhu, Y. Chen, Y. Bao, B. Yi, C. Lan, C. Wu, and C. Guo. A
generic communication scheduler for distributed dnn training
acceleration. In Proc. SOSP, 2019.
[45] M. Pinedo. Scheduling, volume 29. Springer, 2012.
[46] F. Romero, Q. Li, N. J. Yadwadkar, and C. Kozyrakis. Infaas: A
model-less inference serving system. arXiv preprint arXiv:1905.13348,
2019.
[47] H. Shen, L. Chen, Y. Jin, L. Zhao, B. Kong, M. Philipose,
A. Krishnamurthy, and R. Sundaram. Nexus: a gpu cluster engine for
accelerating dnn-based video analysis. In Proc. SOSP, 2019.
[48] C. Steiger, H. Walder, and M. Platzner. Operating systems for
reconfigurable embedded platforms: Online scheduling of real-time
tasks. IEEE Transactions on computers, 53(11):1393–1407, 2004.
[49] L. Wang, L. Yang, Y. Yu, W. Wang, B. Li, X. Sun, J. He, and L. Zhang.
Morphling: Fast, near-optimal auto-configuration for cloud-native
model serving. In Proceedings of the ACM Symposium on Cloud
Computing, pages 639–653, 2021.
[50] Z. Wang, Q. Tang, B. Guo, J.-B. Wei, and L. Wang. Resource
partitioning and application scheduling with module merging on
dynamically and partially reconfigurable fpgas. Electronics, 9(9):1461,
2020.
[51] X. Wu, H. Xu, and Y. Wang. Irina: Accelerating dnn inference with
efficient online scheduling. In 4th Asia-Pacific Workshop on
Networking, pages 36–43, 2020.
[52] W. Xiao, R. Bhardwaj, R. Ramjee, M. Sivathanu, N. Kwatra, Z. Han,
P. Patel, X. Peng, H. Zhao, Q. Zhang, et al. Gandiva: Introspective
cluster scheduling for deep learning. In Proc. OSDI, 2018.
[53] W. Xing and J. Zhang. Parallel machine scheduling with splitting jobs.
Discrete Applied Mathematics, 103(1-3):259–269, 2000.
[54] H. Zhang, Y. Tang, A. Khandelwal, and I. Stoica. {SHEPHERD}:
Serving {DNNs} in the wild. In 20th USENIX Symposium on
Networked Systems Design and Implementation (NSDI 23), pages
787–808, 2023.
[55] H. Zhao, Z. Han, Z. Yang, Q. Zhang, F. Yang, L. Zhou, M. Yang, F. C.
Lau, Y. Wang, Y. Xiong, et al. Hived: Sharing a {GPU} cluster for
deep learning with guarantees. In Proc. OSDI, 2020.
82
