

===== PAGE 1 =====
Serving DNN Models with Multi-Instance GPUs:
A Case of the Reconﬁgurable Machine Scheduling Problem
Cheng Tan†⋆, Zhichao Li†, Jian Zhang†⋆, Yu Cao†◦, Sikai Qi†, Zherui Liu†, Yibo Zhu†, Chuanxiong Guo†
†ByteDance Inc.
⋆Northeastern University
◦New York University
Abstract
Multi-Instance GPU (MIG) is a new feature introduced by
NVIDIA A100 GPUs that partitions one physical GPU into
multiple GPU instances. With MIG, A100 can be the most cost-
eﬃcient GPU ever for serving Deep Neural Networks (DNNs).
However, discovering the most eﬃcient GPU partitions is chal-
lenging. The underlying problem is NP-hard; moreover, it is a
new abstract problem, which we deﬁne as the Reconﬁgurable
Machine Scheduling Problem (RMS).
This paper studies serving DNNs with MIG, a new case
of RMS. We further propose a solution, MIG-serving. MIG-
serving is an algorithm pipeline that blends a variety of newly
designed algorithms and customized classic algorithms, includ-
ing a heuristic greedy algorithm, Genetic Algorithm (GA), and
Monte Carlo Tree Search algorithm (MCTS). We implement
MIG-serving on Kubernetes. Our experiments show that com-
pared to using A100 as-is, MIG-serving can save up to 40%
GPUs while providing the same throughput.
1
Introduction
NVIDIA A100 [10] is the latest and the most powerful GPU
launched in 2020. Seemingly, A100 is not cost-eﬃcient for
DNN serving (inference) because serving may not fully utilize
GPU resources. However, we argue that, equipped with a new
feature—Multi-Instance GPU—A100 can be the most cost-
eﬃcient GPU ever for DNN serving.
Multi-Instance GPU (MIG) is a new hardware feature intro-
duced by A100. MIG allows people to partition one physical
GPU into some number of GPU instances (or instance for
short) that are hardware isolated. For example, an A100 can
be partitioned up to 7 instances, and each instance has its own
processors, memory, L2 cache, and bus bandwidth. Moreover,
small instances can be merged into larger instances, for exam-
ple,two of the 7 instances in A100 (which we call 1/7 instances)
can merge to a 2/7 instance with twice the resources.
To understand the serving costs (in dollars) on diﬀerent
GPUs, we calculate how much one needs to pay for serving
one request using varied GPUs on AWS [3–5], including V100,
T4, and A100—in which A100 is conﬁgured into two variants:
using A100 as a whole (A100-7/7) and partitioning A100 into
ResNet-50
ResNet-50v1.5
BERT-BASE
BERT-LARGE
models
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
normalized dollar per req
(lower is better)
V100(⋆⋆
T4
A100-7/7
A100-7x1/7
Figure 1: Normalized cost per request for diﬀerent DNN models (batch
size 8, INT8, TensorRT 7.2) on diﬀerent GPUs. The cost is calculated
based on model serving performance from NVIDIA inference bench-
marks [12] and the price from AWS [3–5].
(⋆): NVIDIA does not provide inference performance of INT8 for
the three leftmost models on V100 [12]; they provide (and we use)
“Mixed” precision instead.
seven 1/7 instances (A100-7×1/7). 1 Figure 1 shows the result:
A100-7×1/7 is the most cost-eﬃcient setup for all models.
Can we do better than A100-7×1/7? The answer is yes. We
observe that diﬀerent models have diﬀerent preferences about
instance sizes (§2.2), thus we can improve inference perfor-
mance by leveraging A100’s heterogeneity; namely, partition-
ing an A100 into diﬀerent sized instances, for example, a 4/7
instance, a 2/7 instance, and a 1/7 instance.
Meanwhile, however, heterogeneity improve eﬃciency at the
cost of simplicity. It raises many questions (also opportunities),
just to name a few: how to partition GPUs regarding instances
of diﬀerent sizes? Should we mix diﬀerent models in a GPU,
and which ones to mix? DNN service deployers have diﬀer-
ent throughput and latency requirements for diﬀerent models
(deﬁned as service level objectives, SLOs). Consequently, the
GPU conﬁguration that has the highest throughput per resource
is not necessarily the best choice. How can we reﬂect SLOs in
the GPU conﬁgurations?
All these questions lead to our core question, how to con-
ﬁgure MIG-enabled GPUs to most eﬃciently meet SLOs? By
“most eﬃciently”, we mean that GPUs serving DNN models
(called services) can satisfy SLOs with the minimum num-
ber of GPUs. Our problem has three characteristics which in
combination make the problem novel and challenging.
First, diﬀerent DNNs have diﬀerent performance per re-
1Note that we haven’t considered A30 (another MIG-enabled GPU) yet
because no cloud deploys A30 [7] hence we are unable to compare price fairly.
1
arXiv:2109.11067v1  [cs.DC]  18 Sep 2021


===== PAGE 2 =====
source on diﬀerent sized instances (§2.2). This means that
we cannot simply assume that two 1/7 instances equal one
2/7 instance and assign resources by total amounts, which is
a common assumption used by traditional resource allocation
algorithms (like allocating CPU cores).
Second, instance allocation is restricted: partitioning GPUs
follows speciﬁc and (arguably) peculiar rules. These rules may
reject seemingly valid partitions. For example, an A100 cannot
allocate a 3/7 instance when having a running 4/7 instance,
even if it has three free units of resources. This “no 4/7+3/7”
is a hard-coded rule (§2.1), which has something to do with
the hardware overhead of MIG [11]. These rules break an as-
sumption made by many resource allocators (like memory and
disk allocators) that having n units of free resources indicates
one can always allocate a chunk of n resources (by some rear-
rangements, if needed).
Third, MIG supports partial reconﬁguration [45]: a subset
of a GPU’s instances can be repartitioned on-the-ﬂy, without
aﬀecting other working instances on the same GPU. Partial
reconﬁguration diﬀers from classic reconﬁgurable setup (like
RMTs [31]) because the amount of resources involved in one
reconﬁguration is a variable, whereas classic reconﬁgurable
devices, like RMTs, have a basic reconﬁgurable unit which is
ﬁxed in size.
We deﬁne an abstract problem, the Reconﬁgurable Machine
Scheduling Problem, that captures and formally speciﬁes the
above three characteristics. The problem is NP-hard (§3.3).
Despite being computationally expensive to solve, the problem
is crucial for deep learning tasks running on MIG-enabled
GPUs, as the potential of MIG is enormous. In our experiments,
we can save up to 40% GPUs by carefully conﬁguring MIG
instead of ignoring MIG and using GPUs as a whole (§8).
This paper describes a system called MIG-serving, which
aims at serving DNNs with MIG. MIG-serving takes DNN
models and their SLOs as inputs, and produces a set of GPU
partitions and service assignments, called a deployment, that
satisﬁes all SLOs and uses as few GPUs as possible.
MIG-serving consists of two main components: optimizer
and controller. Optimizer is responsible for generating and
optimizing deployments. Speciﬁcally, it can generate a valid
deployment quickly (in minutes); while if more time and com-
puting resources are available, optimizer can gradually im-
prove the result. Controller is in charge of actually applying
the deployment to GPU clusters. In the this process, controller
ensures that end users will not experience service interruptions.
The contributions of this paper are as follows:
• A study of model serving performance with MIG (§2.2,
Appendix B). We study 49 trained models from PyTorch
Hub [14] and TensorFlow Hub [15], and evaluate their per-
formances on diﬀerent sized instances. We observe that the
throughput of most models does not grow linearly with the
increase of resources.
• Deﬁnition of the Reconﬁgurable Machine Scheduling Prob-
lem (§3). We deﬁne the problem in theoretical terms to
highlight the fundamental diﬃculties and the relationship
to other classic scheduling problems.
• An algorithm pipeline for serving DNNs with MIG (§5, §6).
We design a two-step pipeline that explores GPU conﬁgura-
tions and searches for cost-eﬃcient deployments, including:
1. Optimizer: balancing two conﬂicting requirements (§5).
Optimizer needs to search for a deployment that satisﬁes
SLOs. Except being computationally expensive, this
search has two conﬂicting requirements in practice: (a)
discovering a valid deployment quickly and (b) pursuing
the most eﬃcient deployment. We tackle this challenge
by a two-phase algorithm that combines two “template
algorithms”—a fast algorithm and a slow algorithm—
through a tailored Genetic Algorithm (GA).
2. Controller: transparent deployment transition (§6).
From time to time, services get updated and optimizer
produces new deployments to reﬂect the changes. Con-
troller is required to execute the deployment transitions
transparently—without aﬀecting user experiences. To
achieve such transparency, controller uses an algorithm,
exchange-and-compact, which guarantees that during
transitions, service throughputs are always greater than
the required throughputs of the new or old deployments,
whichever is smaller.
• A built system and experimental evaluation (§7, §8). We
implement MIG-serving on Kubernetes and experiment
with it on a 24 A100 GPU cluster. MIG-serving can save
up to 40% of GPUs compared to using A100 disabling MIG
(§8.1). Also, MIG-serving is able to ﬁnish deployment
transitions between two real-world workloads within half
an hour (§8.2).
2
Multi-Instance GPU
This section introduces MIG in detail (§2.1) and studies the per-
formance characteristics of DNN models running on diﬀerent
sized instances (§2.2). We further describe two straightforward
approaches to use MIG for DNN inferences (§2.3), which will
serve as baselines in our experiments (§8).
2.1
NVIDIA A100 MIG
MIG is a hardware feature that allows users to partition a GPU
into multiple GPU instances (or instance for short). Each in-
stance functions as a traditional GPU. Current A100 GPU
implementation has 7 slices of resources2 and people can orga-
nize these resources in many ways with diverse sized instances.
2The description of “7 slices” is a simpliﬁcation; in fact, diﬀerent resource
categories are assigned diﬀerently. For example, a 1/7 instance has 1/7 proces-
sor resources, but only 1/8 memory of A100. See A100 whitepaper [11] for
more information.
2


===== PAGE 3 =====
7/7 instance
1/7 
1/7 
1/7 
1/7 
1/7 
1/7 
1/7 
2/7 instance 
2/7 instance 
2/7 instance 
4/7 instance 
3/7 instance 
instance
choosing
Figure 2: Instance allocation rules, borrowed from NVIDIA’s blog [9,
Figure 1]. A legal A100 partition picks instances top-down. If an
instance is chosen (for example, the shaded 4/7 instance), then all the
instances beneath it are unavailable. As an example, the shaded boxes
represents a legal partition with a 4/7, a 2/7, and a 1/7 instance.
For example, a GPU can be partitioned into three instances
with 1/7, 2/7, and 4/7 of the total resources respectively. In the
rest of the paper, we call an instance with 1/7 of total resources
as a 1/7 instance (similarly for instances of other sizes).
Diﬀerent from resource sharing like MPS (Multi-Process
Service), MIG’s instances do not share computational re-
sources: instances have separate streaming multiprocessors
(SM), GPU memory, and L1/L2 cache. In addition, instances
provide fault and performance isolation by having dedicated
on-chip crossbar ports, L2 cache banks, memory controllers,
and DRAM address buses. Essentially, an instance is a full-
ﬂedged GPU, except some of them are packed in the same
“metal box” (an A100).
As mentioned earlier (§1), MIG’s instance allocation follows
speciﬁc rules; hence having n units of free resources does not
imply that a GPU is able to allocate an n/7 instance. On the
one hand, resources can only be grouped into speciﬁc sized
instances—1/7, 2/7, 3/7, 4/7, 7/7 instances, whereas others
(5/7 and 6/7 instances) are not allowed. On the other hand,
the occupied resources also inﬂuence the possible allocations.
As an example, for a GPU with two running 3/7 instances,
allocating a 1/7 instance is prohibited.
Figure 2 depicts the basic MIG allocation rules. But, there
are several exceptions. For example, “3/7 + 4/7” is permitted in
the ﬁgure but prohibited in practice and “3/7 + 3/7” is possible
but not shown in the ﬁgure. In total, there are 18 distinct legal
instance combinations in one A100 GPU (see the full list in
NVIDIA’s document [13]).
Note that the challenge of allocating a larger-than-1/7 in-
stance is diﬀerent from allocating a chunk of consecutive re-
sources, like memory. If there are n free pages, a memory
allocator can always allocate a chunk of consecutive n pages
by a series of memory copies. Nevertheless, even a GPU has
three available slices, it cannot allocate a 3/7 instance if a 4/7
instance has been allocated, which is a hard-coded rule.
2.2
A study of serving performance with MIG
To understand the serving performance on diﬀerent sized in-
stances, we conduct a study of 49 trained DNNs, in which 24
models are from PyTorch Hub [14] and 25 are from TensorFlow
Hub [15] (see Appendix B for all the models). The models are
with precision of FP32. We run models on 1/7, 2/7, 3/7, 4/7,
and 7/7 instances each for 5 minutes, and collect their through-
puts and 90%-tile latencies. Figure 3 shows the results of two
PyTorch models—densenet121 and xlnet-large-cased—
which represent two categories of models. We use them as
illustrative examples below.
By analyzing the throughput and latency trends in Figure 3,
we have three main observations:
Observation 1 (Figure 3a): the growth of inference through-
put is non-linear relative to the increase in resources
(i.e., from 1/7 to 7/7 instances).
Some models (like
densenet121) has sub-linear throughput growth, while oth-
ers (like xlnet-large-cased) have super-linear throughput
growth. Of course, there are models whose throughputs grow
linearly (see examples in Appendix B). But the point is, models
scale diﬀerently, hence a unit of resource contributes diﬀerently
for diﬀerent models and instances.
Observation 2 (Figure 3b): for the same DNN model, a GPU
with diﬀerent partitions has diverse performance, in terms of
throughput and latency. As shown in Figure 3b, with the same
resources (an A100 GPU) but diﬀerent partitions, throughputs
may diﬀer by up to 4× (for densenet121); the latencies vary
up to 8× (for xlnet-large-cased).
Observation 3 (Figure 3a, 3b): The performance characteris-
tics of diﬀerent DNN models are diﬀerent. By pairwise com-
paring the performance of the two models in Figure 3, we
see that models have diﬀerent performance patterns, and they
prefer diﬀerent GPU partitions. For example, densenet121
prefers small instances, as 1/7 instance has the highest per-unit-
throughput without sacriﬁcing too much on the latency—a
20ms latency increase versus an 7/7 instance. On the contrary,
xlnet-large-cased should prioritize large instances because
they have higher per-unit-throughput and lower latency than
smaller instances.
Model performance classiﬁcation. To understand the perfor-
mance characteristics across models, we classify models into
three categories, based on their throughput growth trends: (1)
linear models whose throughputs grow linearly with the in-
crease of computational resources,(2) sub-linear models whose
throughputs grow sub-linearly, and (3) super-linear models
whose throughputs grow super-linearly.
We classify a model into the three categories as follows. For
a model M, we calculate a per-unit-throughput for the smallest
instance that can run M (usually 1/7 instance, but sometimes
2/7 or 3/7 instance if M is large). Then, we calculate the ratio
of 7/7 instance’s throughput and the above per-unit-throughput.
If the ratio is within [6.5,7.5], we call M a linear model; if the
ratio is smaller than 6.5, M is a sub-linear model; or else, M is
a super-linear model.
Figure 4 depicts the classiﬁcation of all 49 models on diﬀer-
ent batch sizes. We learn that non-linear models are prevalent,
3


===== PAGE 4 =====
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
#slices
0
500
1000
1500
throughput (req/s)
densenet121 (batch=8)
0
20
40
latency (ms)
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
#slices
0
200
400
throughput (req/s)
xlnet-large-cased (batch=16)
0
200
400
latency (ms)
(a) Model throughputs and latencies of instances of diﬀerent sizes. The x-axis is
the instance sizes, where “1” represents a 1/7 instance, and so on. Bars represent
throughputs of the corresponding instances; the solid line represents the 90%-
tile latencies. The dashed and dotted lines indicate the throughputs and latencies
if the model’s inference performance grows linearly.
7
3-3
1-2-4
1-2-3
1-1-1-4
1-1-1-3
2-2-3
1-1-2-3
1-1-1-1-3
1-2-2-2
1-1-1-2-2
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
GPU partition
0
500
1000
1500
throughput (req/s)
densenet121 (batch=8)
0
20
40
weighted avg latency (ms)
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-3
1-1-1-2-2
1-2-3
1-1-1-1-3
1-1-1-4
1-2-2-2
7
1-1-2-3
1-2-4
3-3
2-2-3
GPU partition
0
200
400
throughput (req/s)
xlnet-large-cased (batch=16)
0
200
400
weighted avg latency (ms)
(b) Model throughputs and latencies for diﬀerent GPU partitions. The x-axis is
GPU partitions, sorted by throughputs. In x-ticks, digits represent instance sizes,
for example, “3-3” represents two 3/7 instances. Bars represent throughputs
and lines represent the weighted latencies which is the averages latencies from
diﬀerent instances weighted by their throughputs.
Figure 3: Throughputs and 90%-tile latencies for two PyTorch models, densenet121 and xlnet-large-cased, on diﬀerent sized instances
(Figure 3a) and diﬀerent GPU partitions (Figure 3b).
1
8
16
32
batch sizes
0
10
20
30
40
50
#models in one category
subL
L
supL
Figure 4: Model classiﬁcations. “subL”/“L”/“supL” indicate sub-
linear/linear/super-linear models, respectively.
which account for majority of the cases. In general, we should
assume that a unit of resource contributes diﬀerently in dif-
ferent sized instances for most models. Another takeaway is
that, when the batch size increases, models are more likely to
behave as linear or super-linear. This is intuitive because the
larger the batch, the heavier the computation, thus models can
saturate (or over-occupy) the hardware resources.
Admittedly, our classiﬁcation is rudimentary. Comprehen-
sively understanding DNN performance requires further re-
search. Nevertheless, this basic classiﬁcation sheds some light
on interpreting DNN model performance with MIG. Indeed,
based on the above observations and classiﬁcations, we invent
some heuristics which help the performance of our scheduling
algorithms (§5.3).
2.3
Strawman approaches: homogeneous par-
tition and static partition
At a high level, serving DNNs with MIG requires ﬁrst parti-
tioning GPUs into a collection of instances, and then assigning
models to instances running as services which respond end user
requests. A straightforward approach is to statically partition
the GPUs and treat the service assignments as a classic schedul-
ing problem. By whether having heterogeneous instances, we
have two baselines as follows.
First, GPUs are partitioned into homogeneous instances (ei-
ther 1/7 or 7/7 instances), then the problem of scheduling DNN
services on instances becomes the Identical Parallel Machine
Scheduling Problem [34]. Second, GPUs are partitioned to het-
erogeneous instances (a mix of multiple instance sizes), thus
the problem reduces to the problem of scheduling jobs in a
heterogeneous cluster, namely the Unrelated Parallel Machine
Scheduling Problem [30,40].
The two baselines are not ideal as they ignore MIG’s dy-
namic reconﬁgurability. Our goal is to design a system that
automatically partitions (and re-partitions) GPUs and assigns
DNN services to the best suited instances. It turns out that the
general problem we face is a new abstract problem, which we
deﬁne formally in the next section. And, serving DNNs with
MIG is a case of this abstract problem. We will circle back
with a rigorous problem statement in section 3.3.
3
The Reconﬁgurable Machine Scheduling
Problem
We ﬁrst deﬁnes the Reconﬁgurable Machine Scheduling Prob-
lem (short as RMS) in section 3.1, then highlights the dif-
ferences between RMS and related scheduling problems in
section 3.2. Finally, section 3.3 describes in detail the problem
that this paper targets—serving DNNs with MIG.
3.1
Problem deﬁnition
We have a set of jobs and a set of machines. Each machine can
process one job at a time. Diﬀerent machines have diﬀerent pro-
cessing time for diﬀerent jobs. Machines are reconﬁgurable: a
set of machines can be rearranged to a diﬀerent set of machines,
under some pre-deﬁned reconﬁguration rules (deﬁned below).
And the goal is to ﬁnd a sequence of scheduling and reconﬁg-
uration operations that minimizes (or maximizes) some given
objective, for example, minimizing cost subject to SLOs [35].
Formally, the problem is deﬁned as follows. There is a set of
jobs J and a set of initial machines M0, where M0 ⊆UM and
4


===== PAGE 5 =====
UM is the universe of all possible machines. The processing
time of job j on machine i is denoted as pij. We assume that all
jobs are known ahead of time and machines do not fail.
A reconﬁguration operation (opreconf ) replaces some ma-
chines (say mset) in the current machines (denoted as Mk)
by another set of machines (say mset′). The opreconf does not
aﬀect jobs running on machines other than mset, which is
{mj|mj ∈Mk ∧mj ̸∈mset}. We call the available machines
after a reconﬁguration Mk+1 and Mk+1 = (Mk \mset)∪mset′
because mset′ replaces mset.
Reconﬁguration rules (denoted as rulereconf ) specify
whether an opreconf is legal. For example, whether two ma-
chines can be merged into a larger machine (an analogy to the
rule of merging two consecutive 1/7 instances, Figure 2). Note
that the contents of rulereconf are speciﬁc to problems and are
not part of the RMS deﬁnition. As an example, for serving
DNNs with MIG, reconﬁguration rules follow MIG partition
rules. The deﬁnition of rulereconf is:
rulereconf (mset,mset′,Mk) →Boolean,
where mset ⊆Mk ∧mset,mset′ ⊆UM
We say a reconﬁguration operation opreconf (mset,mset′) is le-
gal, if and only if rulereconf (mset,mset′,Mk) returns True.
Fitting into the scheduling framework. RMS can be de-
scribed by the classic scheduling framework [40], as a triplet
( α | β | γ ). The α, β, and γ are three pieces of information
characterizing a scheduling problem:
• α indicates the machine environment. For example, unre-
lated machine in parallel (Rm) is one type of α in which
machines run in parallel and diﬀerent machines process
diﬀerent jobs at diﬀerent speeds.
• β describes processing characteristics and constraints, for
example, preemption.
• γ represents the objective to minimize (or maximize), for
example, minimizing total cost regarding SLOs (Costmin).
We see machine reconﬁgurability (opreconf and rulereconf ) as a
member of β ﬁeld, and we denote it as reconf. Thus, RMS can
be simply read as:
( Rm | reconf | ∗).
The above asterisk ("∗") indicates that RMS’s objectives
are subjective to change for diﬀerent problems. For exam-
ple, with γ = Costmin, the problem becomes searching for
a series of scheduling and reconﬁguration operations that
minimizes the cost while preserving SLOs. This problem
(Rm|reconf|Costmin) is the focus of this paper (detailed de-
scription in §3.3)
3.2
Related scheduling problems
Scheduling is a broad topic that has been intensively studied.
There are prior scheduling problem variants that consider re-
conﬁguration in several forms [16,23,27,28,31,33,48], but
none of them fully captures the characteristics of MIG. We
elaborate the most relevant ones below (see more in §9).
A recent work that is closely related to our problem (RMS) is
FJSSP-CDST [33] (Flexible Job Shop Scheduling Problem with
machine Conﬁguration-Dependent Setup Times). This is a prob-
lem combining a classic scheduling problem FJSSP [39,40]
and a module named RMTs [31] (Reconﬁgurable Machine
Tools). An RMT is a ﬁxed group of machines that can be de-
ployed with diﬀerent conﬁgurations to serve multiple manu-
facturing purposes.
RMS diﬀers from FJSSP-CDST in the way how reconﬁgu-
rations behave. FJSSP-CDST has a basic reconﬁgurable unit
(an RMT) which contains a ﬁxed group of machines. During a
reconﬁguration, all machines in this unit have to stop. This is
a restriction to our (hence MIG’s) reconﬁgurability because
we do not dictate which machines have to be reconﬁgured at
the same time; for example, an A100 GPU can merge two 1/7
instances without aﬀecting other instances.
Other related scheduling problems include DCSP [23,28]
(Discrete-Continuous Scheduling Problem) and UPM [30,40]
(Unrelated Parallel Machine Scheduling Problem). The former,
DCSP, studies the continuously divisible resources (for exam-
ple, power), whereas resources in GPUs are discrete (organized
and exposed in instances) and are constrained in allocation—
for example, allocating a 3/7 instance requires no 4/7 instance
in the same GPU. For the latter, RMS shares the same machine
environment (Rm) with UPM, but UPM does not consider ma-
chine reconﬁgurations.
3.3
A case of RMS: serving DNNs with MIG
This paper focuses on a variant of RMS—serving DNNs on
GPUs with MIG. In this problem, machines are GPU instances;
jobs are DNN services; diﬀerent services have diﬀerent per-
formance on diﬀerent sized instances (DNNs’ non-linear per-
formance, §2.2). A set of instances in one GPU can be re-
partitioned to another set of instances (a reconﬁguration), with-
out aﬀecting other running instances on the same GPU. Our
goal is to ﬁnd the most eﬃcient GPU partitions and service
assignments that minimizes the number of GPUs used.
A reconﬁguration is valid when it follows the MIG partition
rules (§2.1), deﬁned below.
rulereconf (mset,mset′,Mk) ≜
∀m ∈mset ∪mset′, m is in the same GPUi
∧Mk|GPUi ∈legal A100 partitions
∧Mk|GPUi \mset ∪mset′ ∈legal A100 partitions
In the above deﬁnition, mset and mset′ are GPU instances be-
fore and after the reconﬁguration. The reconﬁguration succeeds
iﬀall instances in mset and mset′ are from the same GPUi, and
the GPU partitions before and after reconﬁguration (Mk|GPUi
and Mk|GPUi \mset ∪mset′) are legal A100 partitions.
5


===== PAGE 6 =====
GPU cluster
service 
deployer
 (           , SLOs)
optimizer
controller
MIG-serving
deployment
services
GPU partitions + 
service assignments
GPU0
GPU1
GPU2
Figure 5: MIG-serving’s architecture.
One characteristic of serving DNNs is that jobs (services)
are “long-running”: they do not ﬁnish until a shutdown or an
update. This is a simpliﬁcation compared to the general RMS
because it spares the decisions on job scheduling timing. In
particular, we do not have to consider when to schedule a job
(service) because they all need to be deployed in the beginning
and are long-running.
Serving DNNs with MIG is an NP-hard problem because
an NP-hard problem, Cutting Stock Problem [6], reduces to it.
The cutting stock problem studies how to cut standard-sized
paper rolls into certain numbers of speciﬁed-sized pieces while
minimizing wasted material. This problem can reduce to our
problem by treating the paper rolls as GPUs, speciﬁed-sized
pieces as diﬀerent sized instances for services, and the required
piece numbers as SLOs. If one can ﬁnd the minimum GPUs for
our problem, we know the minimum paper rolls for the original
problem, which minimizes the wasted materials.
4
System overview
To serve DNNs with MIG eﬃciently, we design and implement
a system, MIG-serving, which automatically partitions GPUs
and assign services. This section introduces MIG-serving’s
design and its main components: optimizer and controller.
Workﬂow. Figure 5 depicts MIG-serving’s architecture.
A service deployer speciﬁes what services (DNN models)
to run and their service-level objectives (SLOs) which include
required throughputs and expected latencies.
MIG-serving takes in the services (models) and their SLOs
as inputs, and is responsible to produce a deployment—a com-
bination of GPU partitions and service assignments. A deploy-
ment is valid if it satisﬁes SLOs: for each service, (i) the sum
of throughputs from all instances is greater than the required
throughput, and (ii) the 90%-tile latency of each instance is
smaller than what required by SLOs.
MIG-serving then generates a transition plan which trans-
fers GPU clusters from the current deployment to the newly
generated one. Finally, MIG-serving executes this transition
plan on GPU clusters. The entire transition process is transpar-
ent to end users; they do not experience service interruptions.
MIG-serving has two main components, optimizer and con-
troller. At a high level, optimizer designs a valid deployment
for the given SLOs, and controller implements this deployment
transparently. Next, we brieﬂy introduce these two components.
Optimizer. Optimizer tackles the optimization problem of
serving DNNs with MIG (§3.3): ﬁnding a valid deployment
that uses as few GPUs as possible. Optimizer runs a two-phase
algorithm which blends a heuristic greedy algorithm, a Genetic
Algorithm (GA), and a Monte Carlo Tree Search algorithm
(MCTS). The ﬁrst phase aims at ﬁnding a candidate deploy-
ment which is valid but suboptimal in terms of GPU usage
eﬃciency. The second phase improves the candidate deploy-
ment via a combination of custom-designed GA and MCTS.
This two-phase design is crucial in practice because it bal-
ances two important but conﬂicting requirements: (i) getting
a valid deployment quickly and (ii) taking full advantage of
every single GPU. The two requirements are at odds because
we need to quickly have at least some plan that satisﬁes the
SLOs in case of urgent changes, but exploring conﬁguration
possibilities takes a lot of time.
Optimizer’s ﬁrst phase runs a fast algorithm (the heuristic
greedy algorithm) in O(n2m) where n and m is the number
of services and GPUs, which can produce results in minutes;
whereas the second phase is expensive and runs continuously
and massively in parallel. Note that the second phase is on-
demand. People can decide how much time and how many
computational resources they are willing to devote.
Controller. Controller receives two inputs, the new deploy-
ment (from optimizer) and the current deployment on GPU
clusters. Controller’s duty is to (i) plan a series of actions
(called a transition plan) that switch GPUs from the current
conﬁgurations to the new version, and (ii) execute the transition
plan without aﬀecting user experiences.
To achieve the above goals, controller runs an algorithm,
called exchange-and-compact. At a high level, the algorithm
ﬁrst changes current service instances to the wanted sized in-
stances while maintaining the required throughputs during this
process, with the help of extra GPUs; it then repartitions GPUs
and packs the services into the planned number of GPUs.
During a deployment transition, controller has four types
of actions: instance creation, deletion, migration, and GPU
repartition. These actions are implemented in Kubernetes (§7),
and controller issues actions according to the transition plan,
and some actions are issued in parallel (§6).
5
Optimizer algorithm
This section describes how MIG-serving solves an optimiza-
tion problem of minimizing number of GPUs used while satis-
fying SLOs. Section 5.1 encodes this optimization problem;
section 5.2 depicts the overall algorithm pipeline of MIG-
serving’s optimizer; and section 5.3 introduces the two con-
crete algorithms optimizer uses.
6


===== PAGE 7 =====
5.1
Deﬁning optimizer procedure
As mentioned (§4), optimizer is obligated to generate valid
deployments that fulﬁll SLOs. Next, we deﬁne this procedure,
which provides a basic framework for diﬀerent algorithms.
Optimizer’s inputs are (1) service performance (through-
put and latency) on diﬀerent sized GPU instances (1/7–7/7
instances), and (2) SLOs which include required throughputs
and latencies for each service. Optimizer’s output is a deploy-
ment that consists of GPU partitions and service assignments.
We deﬁne completion rates for a deployment to represent the
deployment’s progress of satisfying SLOs. Completion rates
is a vector of percentage numbers; each number represents the
percentage of a service’s current throughput to the required
throughput in SLOs. For example, a deployment has comple-
tion rates of [0%,100%,···] means that the deployment does
not run service0 on any GPUs while service1 is fully satisﬁed.
For a service running on an instance, we calculate a utility
which indicates how much this instance contributes to the ser-
vice’s total throughput requirement. For example, if service0
requires 1000 req/s and a 1/7 instance has a throughput of 50
req/s for service0, then we say service0 on 1/7 instance has
a utility of [+5%,0%,···] (we use “+” to distinguish utility
from completion rates). With the utilities of all services, we
can calculate the utility for a GPU by adding up the utilities of
all instances in this GPU: for the same example of service0, if
a GPU has seven 1/7 instances running service0, it has a utility
of [+35%,0%,···] (35% = 7×5%).
Note that the utility space forall possible GPU conﬁgurations
is enormous. A loose upper bound is O(n7) where n is the
number of services, because a GPU has at most 7 instances and
each instance can run one of n services. Of course, the actual
size is much smaller than this bound. Nevertheless, it is still
huge; the number of possible GPU conﬁgurations (utilities) is
157.8k and 234.7k when n is 12 and 13, respectively.
Finally, we deﬁne an optimizer procedure as follows. Given
(i) utilities for all service on all sized instances and (ii) comple-
tion rates, an optimizer procedure should produce a set of GPU
conﬁgurations, such that the sum of all GPU conﬁguration
utilities and the completion rates must be greater than or equal
to [100%,100%,...] (with respect to vector comparison). Note
that the given completion rates is not necessarily all zeros.
5.2
Two-phase algorithm and GA
MIG-serving’s optimizer runs a two-phase algorithm, which is
outlined in Figure 6. It has two “template” algorithms, namely
the fast algorithm and the slow algorithm. Both template al-
gorithms must be an optimizer procedure (§5.1), and the fast
algorithm is supposed to run (relatively speaking) fast. The
two algorithms are connected by the two-phase design and a
custom-designed Genetic Algorithm (GA for short). In the rest
of the section, we ﬁrst introduce the properties of the fast and
the slow algorithms, and then describe the custom GA and its
Genetic
Algorithm
fast algorithm
slow 
algorithm
crossover
selection
mutation
continue?
a deployment
No
Yes
service performance and SLOs
phase 1
phase 2
pick
the best
Figure 6: MIG-serving’s two-phase algorithm. The fast algorithm
and the slow algorithm are optimizer procedures (§5.1).
two main pieces, crossover and mutation.
Fast and slow algorithms. In our design, we require the fast
algorithm (i) to be a legal optimizer procedure, and (ii) running
fast—the algorithm’s time complexity must be polynomial with
respect to the number of services and GPUs. In practice, we
require the algorithm to ﬁnish in minutes.
For the slow algorithm, we only require it to be a legal opti-
mizer procedure. Nevertheless, we expect the slow algorithm
to discover better solutions than the fast algorithm (hopefully
in high probability). This expectation ought to be possible as
the slow algorithm is given more time budgets.
In MIG-serving, we use a heuristic greedy algorithm as the
fast algorithm, and Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS) as the
slow algorithm (§5.3). Of course, they are changeable.
GA overview. GA is a heuristic algorithm framework inspired
by nature gene evolution. We tailor GA to our context: a chro-
mosome is a deployment, and genes are GPU conﬁgurations.
To evolve, a chromosome (deployment) conducts crossovers
and mutations. A crossover erases some GPU conﬁgurations in
a deployment and ﬁlls in with new GPU conﬁgurations gener-
ated by the slow algorithm. A mutation swaps services running
on instances in a deployment.
GA runs in rounds. In each round, we select the best de-
ployments in the last round, and let them attend the coming
crossovers and mutations. GA stops when time out, or the best
deployment stops improving in the past ten rounds. Note that
GA keeps the original deployments in each round’s compari-
son, so that the best candidate only improves over time.
Crossover. A crossover applies to a (valid) deployment, which
contains two steps. First, we randomly erase some GPU conﬁg-
urations, which decreases the overall throughputs and makes
some services unsatisﬁed. As a result, we have completion
rates that are not all-100%. Second, we run the slow algorithm
against the current completion rates and get a deployment that
makes up for the previously erased GPUs. The ﬁgure below is
an illustrative example. Each rectangle represents an instance;
and diﬀerent colored symbols (e.g., stars, triangles, squares)
7


===== PAGE 8 =====
represent diﬀerent services.
➀
➁
The insights behind this crossover approach are twofold.
First, a crossover mixes solutions from the slow algorithm and
the fast algorithm, thereby providing diversity. Second, the
problem size of crossovers is much smaller than the original
one, hence the slow algorithm can ﬁnish in reasonable time.
Mutation. Mutation is based on an observation that DNN
inference does not have aﬃnity requirements (diﬀerent from
DNN training); that is, instances of the same size are identical
for inference. A mutation randomly picks some instance pairs;
each pair contains two instances that are the same in size but
run diﬀerent services. The Mutation then swaps the services
in each pair. The ﬁgure below depicts this process.
The idea of mutation is to explore diﬀerent combinations of
services on one GPU. Mutations themselves do not improve
deployments. But they create diverse service mixing on GPUs
which helps crossovers explore combining diﬀerent services.
5.3
Algorithm, fast and slow
In this section, we introduce the fast and the slow algorithms
used in MIG-serving. The two algorithms are chosen from a
pool of candidate algorithms. It is possible that we may ﬁnd
better algorithms in the future. MIG-serving is designed to
be able to switch algorithms easily.
Fast algorithm: heuristic score and greedy algorithm.
MIG-serving develops a greedy algorithm as the fast algo-
rithm, which chooses the “best” GPU conﬁgurations according
to a heuristic score. This score represents how well a GPU
conﬁguration serves the current service requirements, that is
the complementary to the current completion rates (namely,
1−completion rates, where 1 is an all-1 vector).
The greedy algorithm works as follows. First, it ranks the
known GPU conﬁgurations by their scores and picks the one
with the highest score. The algorithm then updates the comple-
tion rates and repeats the above step until all service through-
puts reach or exceed SLOs. (Appendix A.1 describes this
heuristic greedy algorithm in detail.)
The heuristic score of a GPU conﬁguration is based on two
factors: the current completion rates (a vector of percentages,
§5.1) and the GPU conﬁguration’s utility (a vector of percent-
ages, §5.1). Below is the score’s deﬁnition, where ci and ui are
C0
C0 = [0%, 0%, …]
C3 = [5%, 0%, …]
...
Cm
C1
C2
Cm = [100%, 100%, …]
U0
C3
 [+5%, 0%, …]
Figure 7: An example tree for the problem of serving DNNs with MIG.
The nodes (denoted as Ci) represent completion rates, and Cm is a leaf
node. Edges (denoted as Uj) represent utilities of GPU conﬁgurations.
the ith number in the completion rates and the utility, respec-
tively; 1 is an all-1 vector; n is the number of services.
score(conﬁg) = ∑(1−completion rates)⊙conﬁg’s utility
=
n−1
∑
0
(1−ci)×ui
The idea behind the score is to balance a GPU’s overall
throughputs and the current service needs. On the one hand,
higherthroughputs are likely to have higherscores. On the other
hand, the GPU conﬁgurations which contribute to services
with low completion rates are likely to have higher scores.
For example, if a conﬁguration conﬁga has higher throughputs
than conﬁgb, then conﬁga has a higher score. However, if all
services that conﬁga contributes to are fully satisﬁed, then the
throughputs don’t count and conﬁga’s score is 0.
Slow algorithm: MCTS. MIG-serving tailors the Monte
Carlo Tree Search (MCTS) as the slow algorithm. We choose
MCTS because the problem of allocating MIGs can be nat-
urally encoded to a tree search problem; hence MCTS, as a
well-studied tree search algorithm, is a good candidate.
Figure 7 depicts an example of the tree search problem.
Nodes represents completion rates. Edges represents GPU con-
ﬁguration’s utilities. A transition from a parent node to a child
represents the MIG-serving picking a GPU conﬁguration (in-
dicated by the edge). Leaf nodes are nodes whose completion
rates are all-100% (or larger than 100%), meaning that all ser-
vices are satisﬁed. The goal is to ﬁnd the shortest path from
the tree root (the initial completion rates) to a leaf node. This
shortest path is the deployment that uses the minimal number
of GPUs (the length of the path).
MCTS is designed to search heuristically and ﬁnd a good
solution. However, vanilla MCTS doesn’t work in our problem,
for two reasons. First, each node has too many children: the
number of children equals the number of edges, which equals
the number of GPU conﬁgurations. As mentioned earlier (§5.1),
the conﬁguration space is huge. Second, the classic MCTS
estimation procedure (also known as simulation, playout, or
rollout) is slow and inaccurate. The original estimation is to ﬁnd
a random path to some leaf node which is used to estimate the
depth of a subtree. However,our problem requires an estimation
of the shortest path instead of a random path, which leads to
8


===== PAGE 9 =====
an extremely inaccurate estimation.
To address the above two problems, MIG-serving cus-
tomizes MCTS by (i) cutting the children of each node into the
nodes with the top-K heuristic scores (K=10 by default) and
(ii) using a fast-and-accurate estimation via memoization and
randomization. The details of the custom MCTS are described
in Appendix A.2.
6
Controller algorithm
MIG-serving targets the real-world serving environment, in
which SLOs change from time to time, for example, a shift from
daytime to night. In addition, services get updated as well—
adding/removing services and upgrading DNN models. In the
above cases, MIG-serving needs to recalculate deployments
to adapt to the new requirements, and transfer GPU clusters
from the old deployment to the new one. We call this process
a deployment transition.
In MIG-serving, controller is responsible for designing and
implementing deployment transitions (see Figure 5). A straight-
forward transition approach is to shut down all services, reparti-
tion underlying GPUs, and then reboot the services. Of course,
this method is unacceptable in practice because services are
unavailable during transitions.
The goal of controller is to ﬁnish a transition without in-
terrupting user experiences and ﬁnish it quickly. Controller
introduces an algorithm, exchange-and-compact, which uses
two phases to achieve the aforementioned goals.
Exchange phase. Two deployments diﬀer in two factors: in-
stance sizes for services and GPU partitions. Exchange phase
addresses the ﬁrst factor by creating and deleting diﬀerent sized
instances. First, controller calculates the instance diﬀerences
between the old and the new deployments for each service.
We denote the diﬀerence as ∆i for servicei, which contains the
“diﬀ” of servicei’s instances. For example,a ∆i = [+4/7,−2/7]
means that servicei requires a new 4/7 instance and has an un-
needed 2/7 instance.
For each service, controller pairs every new instance (for
example, “+4/7”) with some unneeded instances (for example,
“−2/7”) such that the throughputs of the new instance is equal
to or larger than the unneeded instances. Note that pairing an
unneeded instance which has larger throughputs is not allowed
(for example, pairing “+1/7” and “−7/7”) because that may
fail providing the adequate throughputs hence aﬀecting user
experiences. Finally, controller has a set of new-unneeded in-
stance pairs and a list of unneeded instances that cannot pair
with any new instances.
Controller executes each new-unneeded instance pair by cre-
ating the new instance ﬁrst (using extra GPUs if needed) and
then deleting the unneeded instances. After ﬁnishing all pairs,
controller deletes instances in the unneeded list. During the
entire process, controller guarantees that services have enough
capacity to handle the expected volume of user requests.
Compact phase. After the exchange phase, all services have
the wanted sized instances in the new deployment. But the GPU
partitions haven’t been changed yet, and controller uses more
GPUs (i.e.,extra GPUs) than expected because of GPU instance
fragmentation. In the compact phase, controller defragments
GPUs by repartitioning GPUs and migrating instances.
At the beginning of this phase, controller creates a list of
GPUs which are not fully occupied (having unused instances),
denoted as S. If S is not empty, controller picks a GPUi ∈S,
and gathers some running instances from other GPUs in S
such that these instances together can fully occupy GPUi; con-
troller repartitions GPUi (if needed), migrates these instances
to GPUi, and removes GPUi from S (the GPUi is now fully uti-
lized). Controller continues the above process until achieving
the new deployment.
Optimizations. Controller adopts several optimizations. We
list two below. First, controller is locality-aware—it prioritizes
local instance migrations over cross-machine migrations. In
our GPU clusters, each machine has 8 A100 GPUs; migrating
instances within a machine is much cheaper than migrating
across machines. Second, actions can run in parallel if the
aﬀected GPUs are separate. Controller analyzes the dependen-
cies between actions and executes the non-conﬂicting ones
simultaneously.
Note that the exchange-and-compact algorithm can happen
in diﬀerent granularities, depending on how many extra GPUs
available. If there are many, controller can run exchange-and-
compact once for all services. However, if only few extra GPUs
are available, controller will run exchange-and-compact in mul-
tiple rounds; in each round, controller only targets a small
number of services.
7
Implementation
MIG-serving is implemented in Python and Kubernetes (k8s).
Figure 8 lists the components of MIG-serving implementa-
tion. For optimizer, we implement the optimizer procedure
(§5.1) as an abstract class that the fast and the slow algorithms
extend. MIG-serving can easily switch to other algorithms by
implementing them under the same abstract class.
We implement controller by extending k8s controller [8].
MIG-serving’s actions—instance creation, deletion, migra-
tion, and GPU partition—are wrappers of k8s operations. For
example, a remote instance migration from machine A to B
is a sequence of operations: creating an instance on machine
B, checking if the instance on B is successfully launched, and
deleting the instance on machine A.
MIG-serving always chooses the largest batch sizes possi-
ble, as far as the inference latency is smaller than what required
by SLOs. This may result in a service with diﬀerent batch sizes
for diﬀerent instances. MIG-serving relies on load balancing
systems to dispatch user requests accordingly.
9


===== PAGE 10 =====
MIG-serving component
LOC
Optimizer
data structures
2674
fast algorithm (greedy)
135
slow algorithm (MCTS)
398
Genetic Algorithm (GA)
330
Controller
k8s controller
1318
exchange-and-compact algorithm
319
Figure 8: Components of MIG-serving implementation.
8
Experimental evaluation
In this section, we answer three questions:
• How many GPUs does MIG-serving save,versus baselines?
• How long does MIG-serving take to complete a deploy-
ment transition, and what components cost the most?
• Do MIG-serving’s deployments meet SLOs in practice?
Baselines and workloads. We have three baselines with static
GPU partitions: (1) A100-7×1/7, partitioning GPUs into 1/7
instances, (2) A100-7/7, using A100 GPUs as-is, and (3) A100-
MIX, partitioning all A100 into “4-2-1” (a combination of
4/7, 2/7, and 1/7 instances) and scheduling one service on one
GPU. A100-7×1/7 is the most cost-eﬃcient setup as shown
in Figure 1. A100-7/7 uses GPU the traditional way (ignoring
MIG). A100-MIX represents heterogeneous setup but ignoring
the characteristics of workloads.
To see how well MIG-serving performs compared to the op-
timal solution (which is computationally expensive to have), we
calculate an approximate optimality—a lower bound of GPU
usage by ignoring MIG’s hardware constraints. In particular,
we assume that any combination of instance is possible, and the
minimal number of GPUs can be calculated by always using
the most cost-eﬃcient instance. Notice that the lower bound
is likely impossible to achieve due to ignoring the hardware
constraints.
We uses two sets of workloads in the following experiments:
• Simulation workloads (requiring hundreds of GPUs): we
generate four workloads for 24 DNN models. In each work-
load, models’ SLO throughputs are generated from either
normal distributions (for two workloads) or lognormal dis-
tributions (for the other two workloads). The latencies in
SLOs are set to 100ms, which is an acceptable waiting time
under most scenarios.
• Real-world workloads (requiring up to 16 GPUs): we build
two real-world workloads for ﬁve DDN models running in
our GPU clusters. We collect 24-hr production throughputs
of the ﬁve models and construct the workloads: one work-
load represents the peak throughputs (called daytime work-
load),and the other workload represents the low throughputs
(called night workload). Note that we scale down models’
throughputs to ﬁt into our testbed which has 24 A100 GPUs,
while preserving throughputs’ relative amounts.
normal-1
normal-2
lognormal-1
lognormal-2
workloads
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
normalized #GPUs
(lower is better)
139
184
268
218
A100-7/7
A100-7x1/7
A100-MIX
greedy
MIG-serving
lower-bound
Figure 9: Number of GPUs used by algorithms for diﬀerent workloads.
The numbers are normalized clusterwise for each workload. MIG-
serving’s absolute numbers of GPUs used are given. “A100-7/7”,
“A100-7×1/7”,and “A100-MIX” are the three baselines; “greedy” rep-
resents MIG-serving’s fast algorithm (§5.3); “MIG-serving” repre-
sents optimizer’s two-phase algorithm; “lower-bound” is the minimal
number of GPUs ignoring MIG’s hardware constraints.
We run MIG-serving on a 104-core machine with 750G
memory running Debian 9.13. To test real-world workloads,
we have a three-machine GPU cluster with 24 A100 GPU cards
(8-GPU for each machine). The ﬁve DNN models for the real-
world workloads are robert-large, bert-base-uncased,
albert-large-v2, resnet101, and resnet50.
8.1
Optimizer algorithms
In this section, we study how many GPUs MIG-serving saves
compared to baselines. The workloads used are the four simu-
lation workloads generated from normal and lognormal distri-
butions, denoted as normal-1, normal-2, lognormal-1, and
lognormal-2. We design the four workloads to use several
hundreds of GPUs, representing a median-sized GPU cluster.
GPU saved. We run MIG-serving and the baselines on the
simulation workloads and count the number of GPUs they use.
Figure 9 shows the results. MIG-serving uses fewer GPUs
than other baselines. It saves up to 40% GPUs compared to
A100-7/7. Moreover, MIG-serving is close to the optimal
allocation—MIG-serving uses <3% more GPUs than the
GPU lower bound (the “lower-bound” in Figure 9). One thing
to clarify is that A100-7×1/7 does not perform as well as in
Figure 1 because solutions now consider latencies, hence some
models cannot use large batch sizes on 1/7 instances.
Note that this experiment does not consider the running time
of algorithms. Thus, it is not an entirely fair comparison be-
cause baselines ﬁnish in seconds, whereas MIG-serving’s fast
algorithm ﬁnishes in minutes and the optimizer’s two-phase
algorithm ﬁnishes in hours (MIG-serving runs 10 rounds of
GA for the four workloads and ﬁnishes in 3hr, 5hr, 6.5hr, and
6hr). But in practice, the service and SLO updates are relatively
infrequent (for example, twice a day), thus we can aﬀord to run
optimizer’s two-phase algorithm. In addition, the deployment
can be reused if models and their SLOs are not changed.
Cost versus T4. To compare the cost-eﬃciency with other
GPU types, we evaluate how many T4 GPUs the simulation
workloads need to satisfy their SLOs. We choose T4 because
10


===== PAGE 11 =====
normal-1
normal-2
lognormal-1
lognormal-2
workloads
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
normalized cost in dollar
(lower is better)
A100-7/7
A100-7x1/7
T4
MIG-serving
Figure 10: Normalized costs for satisfying SLOs of diﬀerent work-
loads. “A100-7/7” and “A100-7x1/7” are the two baselines (with
A100); “T4” represents using T4 GPUs; “MIG-Serving” repreesnts
the two-phase algorithm with A100. We use the price from AWS GPU
machines [3,5].
normal-1
normal-2
lognormal-1
lognormal-2
normal-1
normal-2
lognormal-1
lognormal-2
normal-1
normal-2
lognormal-1
lognormal-2
NO MPS                      MPS=2                      MPS=4
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
#GPU saved (%) compared to
A100-7/7 (higher is better)
MIG-serving
lower-bound
Figure 11: The ratio of GPU saved compared to using A100 as-is
(“A100-7/7”) with diﬀerent MPS conﬁgurations. The left four bar
clusters represent the GPUs saved with no MPS; the middle four
represent the conﬁguration with at most two MPS processes in each
instance; and the last four with at maximum four MPS processes.
it is the most cost-eﬃcient GPU type for DNN serving before
A100. Figure 10 shows the results. MIG-serving is the most
cost-eﬃcient conﬁguration for all workloads.
Combining MIG and MPS. MIG and Multi-process service
(MPS) are orthogonal techniques that can be used together.
With MPS, multiple processes can share the same GPU, which
applies to GPU instances generated by MIG. We combine MIG
and MPS by running up to N processes of the same model in one
GPU instance (e.g., 1/7 instance). In our experiments, we use
N = 2, 4 because we experienced out-of-memory exceptions
when N > 4.
Figure 11 shows the ratio of GPU saved compared to the
baseline A100-7×1/7. By using MPS, multiple processes share
GPU resources, and the GPU utilization increases. Hence, the
baseline, A100-7×1/7, has better performance and the GPUs
saved by MIG-serving are not as many. When using four MPS
processes, MIG-serving saves about 10% GPUs. Nevertheless,
MPS increases GPU utilization at the cost of tail latency stabil-
ity and failure isolation. Since MPS has no memory and failure
isolation, using it may cause unexpected high tail latency and
correlated failures among model processes. Deciding whether
to use MPS and how many processes to run is a trade-oﬀthat
users need to make.
0
2
4
6
8
#rounds
0.975
0.980
0.985
0.990
0.995
1.000
normalized #GPUs
normal-1
normal-2
lognormal-1
lognormal-2
Figure 12: The improvement of the slow algorithm (MCTS) over
the fast algorithm (heuristic greedy) on each GA round. Each line
represents a simulation workload. The number of GPUs required is
normalized to the original deployment (round 0 of the fast algorithm).
Notice that the y-axis starts at 0.97.
Slow algorithm improvement. We study how the slow algo-
rithm improves over the fast algorithm by running 10 rounds of
GA and MCTS. Figure 12 depicts the improvements for each
round. We can see that MCTS improves the solutions of the
heuristic greedy algorithm by saving 1–3% GPUs, which is
much minor than we expected. However, it is still worthwhile:
we can save several to dozens of GPUs by spending multiple
CPU hours. One of our near future work is to tune GA and
MCTS to further improve the deployments.
8.2
Deployment transition
We run MIG-serving on our testbed for the two real-world
workloads (the daytime and night workloads), and experiment
with deployment transitions between the two workloads. In par-
ticular, we ﬁrst deploy the ﬁve services from the daytime work-
load, which uses 16 GPUs. Then, we instruct MIG-serving
to switch the deployment to the night workload, which uses 5
GPUs for the same services. We call this transition, day2night.
Likewise, we call the other way around, night2day.
End-to-end transition runtime. We measure the wall-clock
time of MIG-serving’s two deployment transitions, day2night
and night2day. Figure 13a shows the results. The transition of
day2night is faster than night2day because the former is mostly
shrinking services and reducing the number of GPUs, whereas
the latter requires expanding services and increasing GPUs.
We further decompose each transition runtime into time
spent on diﬀerent components: k8s, GPU partition, and the
exchange-and-compact algorithm. We ﬁnd that k8s takes the
majority of the time. By proﬁling, it turns out that most of k8s’
runtime is spent on bootstrapping an instance (a k8s pod) on
certain GPUs. We believe DNN context switch techniques, like
Pipeswitch [17], can signiﬁcantly reduce this overhead.
A closer look at transitions. To understand the details of the
two transitions, we record the actions issued by MIG-serving
during day2night and night2day, and summarize them in in
Figure 13b. The day2night transition issues more instance
deletions, while night2day has more instance creations. This is
because the deployment during daytime requires more through-
11


===== PAGE 12 =====
day2night
night2day
workloads
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600
runtime (seconds)
k8s
GPU repartition
algorithm & others
(a) End-to-end runtime of deployment transitions
and time spent on diﬀerent components.
day2night
night2day
workloads
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
action counts
creation
deletion
repartition
migration
(b) Number of actions during transitions.
creation
deletion
migration
(remote)
migration
(local)
GPU
partition
controller actions
0
10
20
30
40
50
runtime (seconds)
(c) Runtime of (synchronous) MIG-serving actions.
Bars are average runtime of 10 runs. Error bars in-
dicate the maximum and minimum runtime.
Figure 13
puts (hence instances) than the deployment during night. Also,
night2day has more GPU partition actions because this tran-
sition involves more GPUs, which need to be conﬁgured into
the planned partitions.
Controller actions. As mentioned earlier (§4), controller has
four types of actions, instance creation, deletion, migration
(local and remote),and GPU partition. We measure each of their
runtime and show results in Figure 13c. Note that we run these
actions in a synchronous manner—we issue an action and wait
until it ﬁnishes. In practice, all these actions are asynchronous
and issued in parallel. MIG-serving only has to wait when the
actions have dependencies, for example, creating a replacement
instance before deleting an old instance.
8.3
Serving requests in practice
To understand whether MIG-serving’s deployments satisfy
SLOs, we run the two deployments across models, under the
two real-world workloads, on our testbed and measure their
throughputs in practice. For each deployment, we run multiple
inference clients that continuously issue requests to DNN ser-
vices deployed by MIG-serving. To saturate DNN services,
clients gradually increase the number of requests per second
until the throughput reaches its maximum. In the following,
what we report is the maximum throughputs. Clients and DNN
services run on diﬀerent machines which are connected by
10Gbps datacenter networks.
Figure 14 shows the throughputs required by SLOs and the
throughputs provided by MIG-serving, for diﬀerent services.
In general, MIG-serving achieves >95% satisfaction rate for
the required throughputs. The <5% diﬀerence is due to the
slight performance variance between the model performance
proﬁling (§2.2, Appendix B) and the performance of serving
frameworks (e.g., Tensorﬂow-serving [36]). This can be im-
proved by collecting model performance in production and
gradually updating proﬁling data used in MIG-serving’s algo-
rithms.
9
Related work
Scheduling problems. Scheduling problems [40] have been
well-studied by multiple communities. The Reconﬁgurable Ma-
daytime
night
workloads
0
20
40
60
80
100
SLO satisfaction (%)
all
robert-large
bert-base
albert-large
resnet101
resnet50
Figure 14: Throughputs required by SLOs versus throughputs pro-
vided by MIG-serving for the two real-world workloads. “all” rep-
resents the sum throughputs of all ﬁve models. The y-axis is the
“SLO satisfaction” (in percentage), which is the throughput provided
by MIG-serving divided by the throughput required by SLOs. The
dotted line represents 100% SLO ssatisfaction.
chine Scheduling Problem is an instance (Rm|reconf|∗) that
captures DNNs and MIG’s characteristics: (a) model through-
puts do not grow linearly with additional resources, (b) MIG-
enabled GPUs follow speciﬁc reconﬁguration rules, and (c)
support partial reconﬁguration.
The problem UPM [40] (Unrelated Parallel Machine
Scheduling Problem) tackles (a), but it requires a ﬁxed set of
machines and does not capture MIG’s reconﬁgurability. Prob-
lems with RMTs [31] (Reconﬁgurable Machine Tools) address
(b) and potentially (a). Examples are FJSSP-CDST [33] and
permutation ﬂow shop plus RMTs [16]. But they do not sup-
port partial reconﬁguration because RMTs have ﬁxed-sized
reconﬁgurable units. The problem DCSP [23, 28] (Discrete-
Continuous Scheduling Problem) supports (a) and (c), but the
resources (in our case, GPU slices) have to be continuous (like
power). But on the contrary, our problem has discrete resources
and their allocation is restricted, as indicated by (b).
Partial reconﬁguration. Similar to MIG-enabled GPUs,
FPGA also supports partial reconﬁguration [2]. A classic re-
conﬁgurable device model is the 2D resource model [45,46]
which abstracts a job with two constraints, width and height,
representing the runtime and spatial constraints. The 2D model
targets a similar but diﬀerent problem: a job in the model has
a ﬁxed width and height, which in our context means that a
service can use one ﬁxed-sized GPU instance.
AmorphOS [29] is a system that manages and shares re-
12


===== PAGE 13 =====
conﬁgurable fabric (i.e., FPGA), and leverages FPGA partial
reconﬁgurations. AmorphOS has multiple innovations. The
one related to MIG-serving is AmorphOS’s scheduler which
uses a two-mode approach (called low-latency mode and high-
throughput mode) to schedule jobs based on the current work-
loads and FPGA status. In the context of the Reconﬁgurable
Machine Scheduling Problem, this approach is a rule-based
best-eﬀort scheduling algorithm. Instead of being best-eﬀort,
MIG-serving’s algorithms consider wholistically and search
in a large conﬁguration space.
DNN serving systems. Traditional DNN serving systems—
for example, Tensorﬂow-serving [36], TorchServe [1], Clip-
per [20]—mainly focus on optimizing the performance for
a single service instance, whereas MIG-serving works on a
layer below their abstraction: MIG-serving targets planning
GPU instances hence is complementary to them; these serving
frameworks can run within instances created by MIG-serving.
Another thread of DNN serving systems [18,22,25,42,43]
aims at diﬀerent workloads or speciﬁc DNN models. Though,
conceptually, MIG-serving are complementary to these sys-
tems and can run beneath them, it requires further research to
unleash the full potential of both systems. For example, Batch-
Maker [22] improves RNN’s inference performance by cellular
batching. Similarly, Nexus [43] accelerates DNN serving by
batching requests partially across diﬀerent DNN models. Be-
cause the acceleration of these systems depends on how much
portion of requests can be batched, serving performance varies
with workloads. This is a challenge for MIG-serving as our
algorithms require stable performance as inputs. Likewise,
Clockwork [25] requires the full control over the execution
stack to achieve predicable inference latency, whose schedul-
ing decisions may conﬂict with MIG-serving controller’s.
DNN training scheduler. Scheduling DNN training, espe-
cially distributed training, has been intensively studied [19,24,
32,37,38,47,49]. Though the Reconﬁgurable Machine Schedul-
ing Problem covers the problem of DNN training scheduling,
MIG-serving only tackles DNN serving. As stated in sec-
tion 3.3, the problem of scheduling DNN inference services is
simpler because DNN services are long-running. How to apply
MIG-serving’s techniques to training is our future work.
Though having diﬀerent contexts, some training systems
use related techniques to MIG-serving. Gavel [35] encodes
the problem of training DNNs on heterogeneous GPUs into
an integer programming problem, and uses a solver to solve
the problem. Likewise, MIG-serving’s problem can also be
expressed in mixed integer programming. We’ve tried this,
but our implementation (in Z3 [21]) does not meet our per-
formance requirement—it solves a 5-GPU problem in 20min.
Pollux [41] uses Genetic Algorithms (GA) to optimize cluster-
wide “goodput” (a combination of training throughput and
eﬃciency) by dynamically re-assigning resources to diﬀerent
jobs. MIG-serving also uses GA, but the similarity stops here;
the two systems have diﬀerent targets and the contents of GA
operations are diﬀerent.
Heuristic algorithms. Many real-world problems are NP-
complete, and in practice people use heuristic algorithms to
“solve” them. Our work MIG-serving shares the same spirit
and is indebted to many prior algorithms and systems. For
example, AlphaGo [44] inspires MIG-serving’s customized
MCTS algorithm (§5.3). Similarly, SwapAdvisor [26] enlight-
ens us to use the Genetic Algorithm in MIG-serving.
10
Summary and future work
This paper studies a new hardware feature, MIG, introduced by
NVIDIA A100 GPUs. To capture the characteristics of MIG
and DNN models running on it, we introduce a new abstract
problem, the Reconﬁgurable Machine Scheduling Problem.
Further, we design and implement a system, MIG-serving,
which addresses the problem of serving DNN models with
MIG. Evaluation shows that MIG-serving can save up to 40%
GPUs versus using A100 as a whole.
MIG is a new hardware feature, and there are many future
works to explore, just name a few: ﬁrst, MIG-serving only
focuses on serving. How to apply MIG-serving’s techniques
to training is our future work. Second, MIG-serving’s cur-
rent slow algorithm—MCTS—needs improvement (§8.1). We
plan to ﬁne-tune MCTS, or replace MCTS with other heuris-
tic algorithms, or use (SMT or MIP) solvers to improve the
slow algorithm. Third, the Reconﬁgurable Machine Schedul-
ing Problem (RMS) is a new abstract problem, which has the
potential to extend to other reconﬁgurable devices, such as
FPGA. One of our future work is to comprehensively study
what devices can be abstracted by the RMS and how would
our algorithms help in those scenarios.
References
[1] TorchServe. https://pytorch.org/serve/.
[2] Vivado Design Suite User Guide Partial Reconﬁguration.
https://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation/sw_manuals/
xilinx2018_1/ug909-vivado-partial-reconfiguration.pdf,
2018.
[3] Amazon EC2 G4 Instances.
https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/g4/, 2021.
[4] Amazon EC2 P3 Instances.
https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/p3/, 2021.
[5] Amazon EC2 P4d Instances.
https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/p4/, 2021.
[6] Cutting stock problem.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cutting_stock_problem, 2021.
[7] GPU cloud computing solution. https:
//www.nvidia.com/en-us/data-center/gpu-cloud-computing/,
2021.
[8] Kubernetes Controllers. https:
//kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/architecture/controller/,
2021.
[9] Minimizing Deep Learning Inference Latency with NVIDIA
Multi-Instance GPU. https://developer.nvidia.com/blog/
minimizing-dl-inference-latency-with-mig/, 2021.
13


===== PAGE 14 =====
[10] NVIDIA A100.
https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/data-center/a100/, 2021.
[11] NVIDIA A100 Tensor Core GPU Architecture.
https://www.nvidia.com/content/dam/en-zz/Solutions/Data-
Center/nvidia-ampere-architecture-whitepaper.pdf, 2021.
[12] NVIDIA Data Center Deep Learning Product Performance.
https://developer.nvidia.com/deep-learning-performance-
training-inference, 2021.
[13] NVIDIA Multi-Instance GPU User Guide.
https://docs.nvidia.com/datacenter/tesla/pdf/
NVIDIA_MIG_User_Guide.pdf, 2021.
[14] PyTorch Hub. https://pytorch.org/hub/, 2021.
[15] TensorFlow Hub. https://tfhub.dev/, 2021.
[16] A. Azab and B. Naderi. Modelling the problem of production
scheduling for reconﬁgurable manufacturing systems. Procedia CIRP,
33:76–80, 2015.
[17] Z. Bai, Z. Zhang, Y. Zhu, and X. Jin. Pipeswitch: Fast pipelined context
switching for deep learning applications. In 14th {USENIX} Symposium
on Operating Systems Design and Implementation ({OSDI} 20), 2020.
[18] A. Balasubramanian, A. Kumar, Y. Liu, H. Cao, S. Venkataraman, and
A. Akella. Accelerating deep learning inference via learned caches.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2101.07344, 2021.
[19] S. Chaudhary, R. Ramjee, M. Sivathanu, N. Kwatra, and S. Viswanatha.
Balancing eﬃciency and fairness in heterogeneous gpu clusters for deep
learning. In Proceedings of the Fifteenth European Conference on
Computer Systems, 2020.
[20] D. Crankshaw, X. Wang, G. Zhou, M. J. Franklin, J. E. Gonzalez, and
I. Stoica. Clipper: A low-latency online prediction serving system. In
14th {USENIX} Symposium on Networked Systems Design and
Implementation ({NSDI} 17), 2017.
[21] L. De Moura and N. Bjørner. Z3: An eﬃcient smt solver. In
International conference on Tools and Algorithms for the Construction
and Analysis of Systems, pages 337–340. Springer, 2008.
[22] P. Gao, L. Yu, Y. Wu, and J. Li. Low latency rnn inference with cellular
batching. In Proceedings of the Thirteenth EuroSys Conference, 2018.
[23] M. Gorczyca, A. Janiak, and W. Janiak. The discrete part of the
discrete-continuous scheduling problems-new properties. IFAC
Proceedings Volumes, 42(13):244–249, 2009.
[24] J. Gu, M. Chowdhury, K. G. Shin, Y. Zhu, M. Jeon, J. Qian, H. Liu, and
C. Guo. Tiresias: A {GPU} cluster manager for distributed deep
learning. In 16th {USENIX} Symposium on Networked Systems Design
and Implementation ({NSDI} 19), pages 485–500, 2019.
[25] A. Gujarati, R. Karimi, S. Alzayat, W. Hao, A. Kaufmann, Y. Vigfusson,
and J. Mace. Serving dnns like clockwork: Performance predictability
from the bottom up. In 14th {USENIX} Symposium on Operating
Systems Design and Implementation ({OSDI} 20), 2020.
[26] C.-C. Huang, G. Jin, and J. Li. Swapadvisor: Pushing deep learning
beyond the gpu memory limit via smart swapping. In Proceedings of
the Twenty-Fifth International Conference on Architectural Support for
Programming Languages and Operating Systems, pages 1341–1355,
2020.
[27] K. Jansen, A. Lassota, and M. Maack. Approximation algorithms for
scheduling with class constraints. In Proceedings of the 32nd ACM
Symposium on Parallelism in Algorithms and Architectures, pages
349–357, 2020.
[28] J. Józefowska, M. Mika, R. Różycki, G. Waligóra, and J. Węglarz.
Solving discrete-continuous scheduling problems by tabu search. In 4th
Metaheuristics International Conference MIC, pages 16–20, 2001.
[29] A. Khawaja, J. Landgraf, R. Prakash, M. Wei, E. Schkufza, and C. J.
Rossbach. Sharing, protection, and compatibility for reconﬁgurable
fabric with amorphos. In 13th {USENIX} Symposium on Operating
Systems Design and Implementation ({OSDI} 18), pages 107–127,
2018.
[30] D.-W. Kim, K.-H. Kim, W. Jang, and F. F. Chen. Unrelated parallel
machine scheduling with setup times using simulated annealing.
Robotics and Computer-Integrated Manufacturing, 18(3-4):223–231,
2002.
[31] R. G. Landers, B.-K. Min, and Y. Koren. Reconﬁgurable machine tools.
CIRP Annals, 50(1):269–274, 2001.
[32] K. Mahajan, A. Balasubramanian, A. Singhvi, S. Venkataraman,
A. Akella, A. Phanishayee, and S. Chawla. Themis: Fair and eﬃcient
{GPU} cluster scheduling. In 17th {USENIX} Symposium on
Networked Systems Design and Implementation ({NSDI} 20), 2020.
[33] M. Mahmoodjanloo, R. Tavakkoli-Moghaddam, A. Baboli, and
A. Bozorgi-Amiri. Flexible job shop scheduling problem with
reconﬁgurable machine tools: An improved diﬀerential evolution
algorithm. Applied Soft Computing, 94:106416, 2020.
[34] L. Min and W. Cheng. A genetic algorithm for minimizing the
makespan in the case of scheduling identical parallel machines.
Artiﬁcial Intelligence in Engineering, 13(4):399–403, 1999.
[35] D. Narayanan, K. Santhanam, F. Kazhamiaka, A. Phanishayee, and
M. Zaharia. Heterogeneity-aware cluster scheduling policies for deep
learning workloads. In 14th {USENIX} Symposium on Operating
Systems Design and Implementation ({OSDI} 20), pages 481–498,
2020.
[36] C. Olston, N. Fiedel, K. Gorovoy, J. Harmsen, L. Lao, F. Li,
V. Rajashekhar, S. Ramesh, and J. Soyke. Tensorﬂow-serving: Flexible,
high-performance ml serving. arXiv preprint arXiv:1712.06139, 2017.
[37] Y. Peng, Y. Bao, Y. Chen, C. Wu, and C. Guo. Optimus: an eﬃcient
dynamic resource scheduler for deep learning clusters. In Proceedings
of the Thirteenth EuroSys Conference, pages 1–14, 2018.
[38] Y. Peng, Y. Zhu, Y. Chen, Y. Bao, B. Yi, C. Lan, C. Wu, and C. Guo. A
generic communication scheduler for distributed dnn training
acceleration. In Proceedings of the 27th ACM Symposium on Operating
Systems Principles, pages 16–29, 2019.
[39] F. Pezzella, G. Morganti, and G. Ciaschetti. A genetic algorithm for the
ﬂexible job-shop scheduling problem. Computers & Operations
Research, 35(10):3202–3212, 2008.
[40] M. Pinedo. Scheduling, volume 29. Springer, 2012.
[41] A. Qiao, W. Neiswanger, Q. Ho, H. Zhang, G. R. Ganger, and E. P.
Xing. Pollux: Co-adaptive cluster scheduling for goodput-optimized
deep learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2008.12260, 2020.
[42] F. Romero, Q. Li, N. J. Yadwadkar, and C. Kozyrakis. Infaas: A
model-less inference serving system. arXiv preprint arXiv:1905.13348,
2019.
[43] H. Shen, L. Chen, Y. Jin, L. Zhao, B. Kong, M. Philipose,
A. Krishnamurthy, and R. Sundaram. Nexus: a gpu cluster engine for
accelerating dnn-based video analysis. In Proceedings of the 27th ACM
Symposium on Operating Systems Principles, 2019.
[44] D. Silver, J. Schrittwieser, K. Simonyan, I. Antonoglou, A. Huang,
A. Guez, T. Hubert, L. Baker, M. Lai, A. Bolton, et al. Mastering the
game of go without human knowledge. nature, 550(7676):354–359,
2017.
[45] C. Steiger, H. Walder, and M. Platzner. Operating systems for
reconﬁgurable embedded platforms: Online scheduling of real-time
tasks. IEEE Transactions on computers, 53(11):1393–1407, 2004.
[46] Z. Wang, Q. Tang, B. Guo, J.-B. Wei, and L. Wang. Resource
partitioning and application scheduling with module merging on
dynamically and partially reconﬁgurable fpgas. Electronics, 9(9):1461,
2020.
[47] W. Xiao, R. Bhardwaj, R. Ramjee, M. Sivathanu, N. Kwatra, Z. Han,
P. Patel, X. Peng, H. Zhao, Q. Zhang, et al. Gandiva: Introspective
cluster scheduling for deep learning. In 13th {USENIX} Symposium on
Operating Systems Design and Implementation ({OSDI} 18), 2018.
14


===== PAGE 15 =====
[48] W. Xing and J. Zhang. Parallel machine scheduling with splitting jobs.
Discrete Applied Mathematics, 103(1-3):259–269, 2000.
[49] H. Zhao, Z. Han, Z. Yang, Q. Zhang, F. Yang, L. Zhou, M. Yang, F. C.
Lau, Y. Wang, Y. Xiong, et al. Hived: Sharing a {GPU} cluster for deep
learning with guarantees. In 14th {USENIX} Symposium on Operating
Systems Design and Implementation ({OSDI} 20), pages 515–532,
2020.
15


===== PAGE 16 =====
A
MIG-serving algorithms
A.1
Heuristic greedy algorithm
As mentioned in section 5.3, MIG-serving uses a greedy algo-
rithm as the fast algorithm which is based on a heuristic score.
Figure 15 describes this greedy algorithm in detail.
In section 5.3, we deliberately omitted some technicalities
for simplicity. Speciﬁcally, in order to keep the each round of
search manageable, the algorithm only consider mixing two
services in one GPU (Line 2, Figure 15). But, when all services
are about to be fully satisﬁed, the algorithm changes its behav-
ior by mixing more services in one GPU (Line 20, Figure 15).
This is because two services can no longer saturate a GPU, and
the algorithm needs to pack more services.
A.2
Customized MCTS
As stated in section 5.3, vanilla MCTS does not work for our
problem because of two challenges: (i) tree node has too many
children and (ii) the classic MCTS estimation procedure is slow
and inaccurate. We elaborate how MIG-serving addresses
these two challenges below.
For the ﬁrst challenge, MIG-serving cuts the space by only
having the conﬁgurations with top-K scores for a node. Specif-
ically, for each node (i.e., completion rates), MIG-serving
randomly picks ﬁve services which are not fully satisﬁed and
calculates scores (§5.3) for the GPU conﬁgurations having
these services. Then MIG-serving chooses the top-K conﬁgu-
rations (K=10 by default) as edges to this node and generates
the corresponding child nodes.
For the second challenge, MIG-serving develops a fast and
accurate estimation by memoization and randomization. In par-
ticular, MIG-serving’s estimation pre-calculates and caches
some good candidates for diﬀerent types of completion rates.
During the estimation procedure, MIG-serving maps the cur-
rent node to a type of completion rates (roughly), and randomly
chooses a child node from the pool of good candidates. It re-
peats this step until reaches some leaf node. Our experiments
show that this estimation approach is about two to three orders
of magnitude faster than the classic estimation and is accurate.
B
A study of serving performance with MIG
As mentioned in section 2.2, to understand inference perfor-
mance on diﬀerent sized instances, we experiment with 49 open
sourced models in PyTorch Hub [14] and TensorFlow Hub [15],
and collect model inference throughputs and latencies. This
section describes the experiment details and provides results
from more models than the two in section 2.2.
Experimental setup. Our testbed is a machine with AMD
EPYC 7742 CPU with 64 cores, 1.96 TB memory, running
Debian 9 (stretch) OS,CUDA 11.0.207,NVIDIA driver version
450.80.02.
1: procedure FastAlgo(comp_rates)
2:
conf_set ←all GPU conﬁgs mixing at most 2 services
3:
ret ←empty list
4:
while True:
5:
max_score ←0
6:
best_conf ←None
7:
8:
for conf ∈conf_set:
// ﬁnd the best conﬁg
9:
score ←calculate score for conf
//§5.3
10:
if score > max_score:
11:
max_score←score
12:
best_conf ←conf
13:
14:
ret+ = best_conf
15:
update comp_rates according to best_conf ’s utility
16:
if comp_rates >= [100%]∗len(comp_rates):
17:
return ret
18:
19:
for servicei in all services:
20:
if servicei is almost satisﬁed:
21:
confs ←mixing servicei with more services
22:
conf_set+ = confs
Figure 15: MIG-serving’s fast algorithm (§5.3).
In our experiments, we do not use the serving frameworks
like TensorFlow serving or TorchServe because we want to
evaluate inference throughputs and latencies of GPUs only,
without queueing eﬀects or the overheads from these serving
frameworks. Therefore, we develop our own benchmarking
tool which prepares the inputs in memory and directly call
models’ inference functions. The latencies collected by the
tool are the running time of model inference on GPUs, which
do not include overheads from inter-process communication
or network costs.
PyTorch. We run PyTorch 1.9.0. Models are fetched from Py-
torch Hub. Figure 16 shows the single instance throughputs
and latencies for 8 models that exist in both PyTorch’s and
TensorFlow’s model hub (resnet50, vgg19, densenet121,
inceptionv3, bert-base-uncased, gpt2, roberta-large,
and albert-large-v2) of four batch sizes (1, 8, 16, 32). Fig-
ure 17 shows the throughputs and latencies for diﬀerent GPU
partitions of the same 8 models.
TensorFlow. We run TensorFlow 2.4.1. Models are fetched
from tensorﬂow.keras.applications module and transformers
4.5.1 which is a popular Python library for natural language
processing. Figure 18 shows the single instance throughputs
and latencies for the same 8 models as PyTorch’s above and in
four batch sizes (1, 8, 16, 32). Figure 19 shows the throughputs
and latencies for diﬀerent GPU partitions of the same 8 models.
16


===== PAGE 17 =====
#slices
0
200
400
600
800
throughput (req/s)
resnet50 [batch=1]
#slices
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
throughput (req/s)
resnet50 [batch=8]
#slices
0
500
1000
1500
2000
throughput (req/s)
resnet50 [batch=16]
#slices
0
500
1000
1500
2000
throughput (req/s)
resnet50 [batch=32]
#slices
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
throughput (req/s)
vgg19 [batch=1]
#slices
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
throughput (req/s)
vgg19 [batch=8]
#slices
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
throughput (req/s)
vgg19 [batch=16]
#slices
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
throughput (req/s)
vgg19 [batch=32]
#slices
0
100
200
300
400
throughput (req/s)
densenet121 [batch=1]
#slices
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
throughput (req/s)
densenet121 [batch=8]
#slices
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
throughput (req/s)
densenet121 [batch=16]
#slices
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
throughput (req/s)
densenet121 [batch=32]
#slices
0
100
200
300
400
500
throughput (req/s)
inceptionv3 [batch=1]
#slices
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
throughput (req/s)
inceptionv3 [batch=8]
#slices
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
throughput (req/s)
inceptionv3 [batch=16]
#slices
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
3500
throughput (req/s)
inceptionv3 [batch=32]
#slices
0
200
400
600
800
throughput (req/s)
bert-base-uncased [batch=1]
#slices
0
500
1000
1500
2000
throughput (req/s)
bert-base-uncased [batch=8]
#slices
0
500
1000
1500
2000
throughput (req/s)
bert-base-uncased [batch=16]
#slices
0
500
1000
1500
2000
throughput (req/s)
bert-base-uncased [batch=32]
#slices
0
200
400
600
800
throughput (req/s)
gpt2 [batch=1]
#slices
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
throughput (req/s)
gpt2 [batch=8]
#slices
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
throughput (req/s)
gpt2 [batch=16]
#slices
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
throughput (req/s)
gpt2 [batch=32]
#slices
0
100
200
300
400
throughput (req/s)
roberta-large [batch=1]
#slices
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
throughput (req/s)
roberta-large [batch=8]
#slices
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
throughput (req/s)
roberta-large [batch=16]
#slices
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
throughput (req/s)
roberta-large [batch=32]
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
#slices
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
throughput (req/s)
albert-large-v2 [batch=1]
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
#slices
0
100
200
300
400
throughput (req/s)
albert-large-v2 [batch=8]
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
#slices
0
100
200
300
400
throughput (req/s)
albert-large-v2 [batch=16]
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
#slices
0
100
200
300
400
500
throughput (req/s)
albert-large-v2 [batch=32]
0
2
4
6
8
latency (ms)
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
latency (ms)
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
latency (ms)
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
latency (ms)
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
latency (ms)
0
10
20
30
40
50
latency (ms)
0
20
40
60
80
latency (ms)
0
25
50
75
100
125
150
175
latency (ms)
0
5
10
15
20
latency (ms)
0
10
20
30
40
latency (ms)
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
latency (ms)
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
latency (ms)
0.0
2.5
5.0
7.5
10.0
12.5
15.0
latency (ms)
0
5
10
15
20
25
latency (ms)
0
10
20
30
40
latency (ms)
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
latency (ms)
0
2
4
6
8
10
latency (ms)
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
latency (ms)
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
latency (ms)
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
latency (ms)
0
2
4
6
8
latency (ms)
0
10
20
30
40
50
latency (ms)
0
20
40
60
80
100
latency (ms)
0
25
50
75
100
125
150
175
latency (ms)
0
5
10
15
20
latency (ms)
0
20
40
60
80
100
latency (ms)
0
50
100
150
200
latency (ms)
0
100
200
300
400
latency (ms)
0
5
10
15
20
25
latency (ms)
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
latency (ms)
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
latency (ms)
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
latency (ms)
Figure 16: PyTorch model inference throughputs and latencies for 1/7–7/7 instances.
17


===== PAGE 18 =====
7
3-3
1-2-4
1-2-3
2-2-3
1-1-1-4
1-1-1-3
1-1-2-3
1-2-2-2
1-1-1-1-3
1-1-1-2-2
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
GPU partition
0
200
400
600
800
throughput (req/s)
resnet50 [batch=1]
7
1-1-1-3
1-2-3
3-3
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-2-2
1-2-2-2
1-1-1-4
1-2-4
1-1-1-1-3
1-1-2-3
2-2-3
GPU partition
0
500
1000
1500
2000
throughput (req/s)
resnet50 [batch=8]
1-1-1-3
1-2-3
7
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-2-2
3-3
1-2-2-2
1-1-1-4
1-2-4
1-1-1-1-3
1-1-2-3
2-2-3
GPU partition
0
500
1000
1500
2000
throughput (req/s)
resnet50 [batch=16]
1-1-1-3
1-2-3
7
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-2-2
1-1-1-4
1-2-2-2
1-2-4
3-3
1-1-1-1-3
1-1-2-3
2-2-3
GPU partition
0
1000
2000
throughput (req/s)
resnet50 [batch=32]
7
1-1-1-3
1-2-3
3-3
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-2-2
1-2-2-2
1-1-1-4
1-2-4
1-1-1-1-3
1-1-2-3
2-2-3
GPU partition
0
200
400
600
throughput (req/s)
vgg19 [batch=1]
1-2-3
1-1-1-3
3-3
7
1-2-2-2
1-2-4
1-1-1-2-2
1-1-1-4
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
2-2-3
1-1-2-3
1-1-1-1-3
GPU partition
0
500
1000
throughput (req/s)
vgg19 [batch=8]
1-1-1-3
1-2-3
3-3
1-1-1-4
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
1-2-4
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-2-2
1-2-2-2
7
1-1-1-1-3
1-1-2-3
2-2-3
GPU partition
0
500
1000
1500
throughput (req/s)
vgg19 [batch=16]
1-2-3
1-1-1-3
3-3
1-2-2-2
1-1-1-2-2
1-2-4
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-4
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
7
2-2-3
1-1-2-3
1-1-1-1-3
GPU partition
0
500
1000
1500
throughput (req/s)
vgg19 [batch=32]
7
3-3
2-2-3
1-2-4
1-2-3
1-2-2-2
1-1-2-3
1-1-1-4
1-1-1-3
1-1-1-2-2
1-1-1-1-3
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
GPU partition
0
100
200
300
400
throughput (req/s)
densenet121 [batch=1]
7
3-3
1-2-4
1-2-3
1-1-1-4
1-1-1-3
2-2-3
1-1-2-3
1-1-1-1-3
1-2-2-2
1-1-1-2-2
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
GPU partition
0
500
1000
1500
throughput (req/s)
densenet121 [batch=8]
7
1-2-3
1-1-1-3
1-2-4
1-1-1-4
3-3
1-2-2-2
1-1-1-2-2
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
2-2-3
1-1-2-3
1-1-1-1-3
GPU partition
0
500
1000
1500
throughput (req/s)
densenet121 [batch=16]
1-2-3
1-1-1-3
7
1-2-4
1-2-2-2
1-1-1-4
1-1-1-2-2
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
3-3
2-2-3
1-1-2-3
1-1-1-1-3
GPU partition
0
500
1000
1500
throughput (req/s)
densenet121 [batch=32]
7
3-3
2-2-3
1-2-4
1-2-3
1-2-2-2
1-1-2-3
1-1-1-4
1-1-1-3
1-1-1-2-2
1-1-1-1-3
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
GPU partition
0
200
400
throughput (req/s)
inceptionv3 [batch=1]
7
3-3
1-2-4
1-2-3
1-1-1-4
1-1-1-3
2-2-3
1-1-2-3
1-1-1-1-3
1-2-2-2
1-1-1-2-2
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
GPU partition
0
1000
2000
throughput (req/s)
inceptionv3 [batch=8]
7
3-3
1-2-3
1-2-4
1-1-1-3
1-1-1-4
2-2-3
1-1-2-3
1-1-1-1-3
1-2-2-2
1-1-1-2-2
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
GPU partition
0
1000
2000
3000
throughput (req/s)
inceptionv3 [batch=16]
7
1-1-1-3
1-2-3
3-3
1-1-1-4
1-2-4
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-2-2
1-2-2-2
1-1-1-1-3
1-1-2-3
2-2-3
GPU partition
0
1000
2000
3000
throughput (req/s)
inceptionv3 [batch=32]
7
3-3
1-2-4
2-2-3
1-2-3
1-1-1-4
1-2-2-2
1-1-2-3
1-1-1-3
1-1-1-2-2
1-1-1-1-3
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
GPU partition
0
200
400
600
800
throughput (req/s)
bert-base-uncased [batch=1]
7
1-1-1-3
3-3
1-2-3
1-1-1-4
1-2-4
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
1-1-1-1-3
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-2-3
1-1-1-2-2
2-2-3
1-2-2-2
GPU partition
0
500
1000
1500
2000
throughput (req/s)
bert-base-uncased [batch=8]
1-1-1-3
1-2-3
3-3
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
7
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-2-2
1-1-1-1-3
1-1-1-4
1-2-2-2
1-1-2-3
1-2-4
2-2-3
GPU partition
0
500
1000
1500
2000
throughput (req/s)
bert-base-uncased [batch=16]
1-1-1-3
1-2-3
3-3
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-2-2
1-2-2-2
1-1-1-4
1-2-4
1-1-1-1-3
1-1-2-3
2-2-3
7
GPU partition
0
500
1000
1500
2000
throughput (req/s)
bert-base-uncased [batch=32]
7
3-3
1-2-4
1-2-3
2-2-3
1-1-1-4
1-1-1-3
1-2-2-2
1-1-2-3
1-1-1-2-2
1-1-1-1-3
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
GPU partition
0
200
400
600
800
throughput (req/s)
gpt2 [batch=1]
7
1-1-1-3
1-2-3
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-2-2
1-2-2-2
3-3
1-1-1-4
1-2-4
1-1-1-1-3
1-1-2-3
2-2-3
GPU partition
0
500
1000
1500
throughput (req/s)
gpt2 [batch=8]
1-1-1-3
1-2-3
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-2-2
1-1-1-4
1-2-2-2
1-2-4
3-3
7
1-1-1-1-3
1-1-2-3
2-2-3
GPU partition
0
500
1000
1500
throughput (req/s)
gpt2 [batch=16]
1-1-1-3
1-2-3
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-4
1-1-1-2-2
1-2-4
1-2-2-2
3-3
7
1-1-1-1-3
1-1-2-3
2-2-3
GPU partition
0
500
1000
1500
throughput (req/s)
gpt2 [batch=32]
7
3-3
1-2-4
1-2-3
2-2-3
1-1-1-4
1-2-2-2
1-1-1-3
1-1-2-3
1-1-1-2-2
1-1-1-1-3
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
GPU partition
0
100
200
300
400
throughput (req/s)
roberta-large [batch=1]
7
1-1-1-3
1-2-3
3-3
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
1-1-1-4
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-2-4
1-1-1-2-2
1-1-1-1-3
1-2-2-2
1-1-2-3
2-2-3
GPU partition
0
200
400
600
throughput (req/s)
roberta-large [batch=8]
1-1-1-3
1-2-3
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
3-3
1-1-1-1-1-2
7
1-1-1-4
1-1-1-1-3
1-1-1-2-2
1-2-4
1-1-2-3
1-2-2-2
2-2-3
GPU partition
0
200
400
600
throughput (req/s)
roberta-large [batch=16]
1-1-1-3
1-2-3
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
1-1-1-1-1-2
3-3
1-1-1-2-2
1-1-1-4
1-2-2-2
1-1-1-1-3
1-2-4
1-1-2-3
7
2-2-3
GPU partition
0
200
400
600
throughput (req/s)
roberta-large [batch=32]
7
3-3
1-2-4
1-2-3
2-2-3
1-1-1-4
1-1-1-3
1-1-2-3
1-2-2-2
1-1-1-1-3
1-1-1-2-2
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
GPU partition
0
100
200
300
throughput (req/s)
albert-large-v2 [batch=1]
1-1-1-3
1-2-3
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
1-1-1-4
3-3
1-1-1-1-1-2
7
1-2-4
1-1-1-2-2
1-2-2-2
1-1-1-1-3
1-1-2-3
2-2-3
GPU partition
0
100
200
300
400
throughput (req/s)
albert-large-v2 [batch=8]
1-1-1-3
1-2-3
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-4
1-1-1-2-2
3-3
7
1-2-4
1-2-2-2
1-1-1-1-3
1-1-2-3
2-2-3
GPU partition
0
200
400
throughput (req/s)
albert-large-v2 [batch=16]
1-1-1-3
1-2-3
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-2-2
1-1-1-4
1-2-2-2
1-2-4
3-3
1-1-1-1-3
7
1-1-2-3
2-2-3
GPU partition
0
200
400
throughput (req/s)
albert-large-v2 [batch=32]
0
2
4
6
8
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
10
20
30
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
20
40
60
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
25
50
75
100
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
5
10
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
20
40
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
20
40
60
80
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
50
100
150
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
5
10
15
20
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
10
20
30
40
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
20
40
60
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
50
100
150
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
5
10
15
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
10
20
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
10
20
30
40
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
20
40
60
weighted avg latency (ms)
0.0
2.5
5.0
7.5
10.0
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
10
20
30
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
20
40
60
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
50
100
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
2
4
6
8
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
20
40
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
25
50
75
100
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
50
100
150
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
5
10
15
20
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
25
50
75
100
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
50
100
150
200
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
100
200
300
400
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
10
20
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
50
100
150
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
100
200
300
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
200
400
600
weighted avg latency (ms)
Figure 17: PyTorch model inference throughputs and latencies for distinct GPU partitions.
18


===== PAGE 19 =====
#slices
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
throughput (req/s)
resnet50 [batch=1]
#slices
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
throughput (req/s)
resnet50 [batch=8]
#slices
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
throughput (req/s)
resnet50 [batch=16]
#slices
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
throughput (req/s)
resnet50 [batch=32]
#slices
0
100
200
300
400
throughput (req/s)
vgg19 [batch=1]
#slices
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
throughput (req/s)
vgg19 [batch=8]
#slices
0
200
400
600
800
1000
throughput (req/s)
vgg19 [batch=16]
#slices
0
200
400
600
800
1000
throughput (req/s)
vgg19 [batch=32]
#slices
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
throughput (req/s)
densenet121 [batch=1]
#slices
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
throughput (req/s)
densenet121 [batch=8]
#slices
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
throughput (req/s)
densenet121 [batch=16]
#slices
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
throughput (req/s)
densenet121 [batch=32]
#slices
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
throughput (req/s)
inceptionv3 [batch=1]
#slices
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
throughput (req/s)
inceptionv3 [batch=8]
#slices
0
500
1000
1500
2000
throughput (req/s)
inceptionv3 [batch=16]
#slices
0
500
1000
1500
2000
throughput (req/s)
inceptionv3 [batch=32]
#slices
0
200
400
600
800
1000
throughput (req/s)
bert-base-uncased [batch=1]
#slices
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
throughput (req/s)
bert-base-uncased [batch=8]
#slices
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
throughput (req/s)
bert-base-uncased [batch=16]
#slices
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
throughput (req/s)
bert-base-uncased [batch=32]
#slices
0
200
400
600
800
throughput (req/s)
gpt2 [batch=1]
#slices
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
throughput (req/s)
gpt2 [batch=8]
#slices
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
throughput (req/s)
gpt2 [batch=16]
#slices
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
throughput (req/s)
gpt2 [batch=32]
#slices
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
throughput (req/s)
roberta-large [batch=1]
#slices
0
100
200
300
400
throughput (req/s)
roberta-large [batch=8]
#slices
0
100
200
300
400
throughput (req/s)
roberta-large [batch=16]
#slices
0
100
200
300
400
throughput (req/s)
roberta-large [batch=32]
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
#slices
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
throughput (req/s)
albert-large-v2 [batch=1]
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
#slices
0
100
200
300
400
throughput (req/s)
albert-large-v2 [batch=8]
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
#slices
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
throughput (req/s)
albert-large-v2 [batch=16]
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
#slices
0
100
200
300
400
throughput (req/s)
albert-large-v2 [batch=32]
0
2
4
6
8
10
latency (ms)
0
10
20
30
40
50
latency (ms)
0
20
40
60
80
100
latency (ms)
0
25
50
75
100
125
150
175
latency (ms)
0
5
10
15
20
latency (ms)
0
20
40
60
80
100
latency (ms)
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
latency (ms)
0
50
100
150
200
250
latency (ms)
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
latency (ms)
0
10
20
30
40
latency (ms)
0
20
40
60
80
latency (ms)
0
25
50
75
100
125
150
latency (ms)
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
latency (ms)
0
10
20
30
40
latency (ms)
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
latency (ms)
0
20
40
60
80
100
latency (ms)
0
2
4
6
8
latency (ms)
0
10
20
30
40
50
latency (ms)
0
20
40
60
80
100
latency (ms)
0
50
100
150
200
latency (ms)
0
2
4
6
8
latency (ms)
0
10
20
30
40
50
latency (ms)
0
20
40
60
80
100
latency (ms)
0
50
100
150
200
latency (ms)
0
5
10
15
20
25
latency (ms)
0
25
50
75
100
125
150
latency (ms)
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
latency (ms)
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
latency (ms)
0
5
10
15
20
25
latency (ms)
0
25
50
75
100
125
150
175
latency (ms)
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
latency (ms)
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
latency (ms)
Figure 18: TensorFlow model inference throughputs and latencies for 1/7–7/7 instances.
19


===== PAGE 20 =====
7
3-3
1-2-4
1-2-3
1-1-1-4
1-1-1-3
2-2-3
1-1-2-3
1-1-1-1-3
1-2-2-2
1-1-1-2-2
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
GPU partition
0
200
400
600
throughput (req/s)
resnet50 [batch=1]
7
3-3
1-2-3
1-1-1-3
1-2-4
1-1-1-4
2-2-3
1-1-2-3
1-2-2-2
1-1-1-1-3
1-1-1-2-2
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
GPU partition
0
250
500
750
1000
throughput (req/s)
resnet50 [batch=8]
7
1-2-3
1-1-1-3
3-3
1-2-4
1-1-1-4
1-2-2-2
1-1-1-2-2
1-1-1-1-1-2
2-2-3
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
1-1-2-3
1-1-1-1-3
GPU partition
0
500
1000
throughput (req/s)
resnet50 [batch=16]
1-2-3
1-1-1-3
3-3
7
1-2-4
1-1-1-4
1-2-2-2
1-1-1-2-2
1-1-1-1-1-2
2-2-3
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
1-1-2-3
1-1-1-1-3
GPU partition
0
500
1000
throughput (req/s)
resnet50 [batch=32]
7
3-3
1-2-3
1-1-1-3
1-2-4
1-1-1-4
2-2-3
1-2-2-2
1-1-2-3
1-1-1-2-2
1-1-1-1-3
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
GPU partition
0
100
200
300
400
throughput (req/s)
vgg19 [batch=1]
1-1-1-3
1-2-3
3-3
7
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
1-1-1-4
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-1-3
1-2-4
1-1-1-2-2
1-1-2-3
1-2-2-2
2-2-3
GPU partition
0
200
400
600
throughput (req/s)
vgg19 [batch=8]
1-2-3
1-1-1-3
3-3
7
1-2-4
1-1-1-4
1-2-2-2
1-1-1-2-2
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
2-2-3
1-1-2-3
1-1-1-1-3
GPU partition
0
250
500
750
1000
throughput (req/s)
vgg19 [batch=16]
1-2-3
1-1-1-3
3-3
7
1-2-4
1-1-1-4
1-2-2-2
1-1-1-2-2
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
2-2-3
1-1-2-3
1-1-1-1-3
GPU partition
0
250
500
750
1000
throughput (req/s)
vgg19 [batch=32]
7
3-3
1-2-4
1-2-3
2-2-3
1-1-1-4
1-1-1-3
1-2-2-2
1-1-2-3
1-1-1-2-2
1-1-1-1-3
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
GPU partition
0
200
400
600
throughput (req/s)
densenet121 [batch=1]
7
3-3
1-2-3
1-1-1-3
1-2-4
1-1-1-4
2-2-3
1-1-2-3
1-2-2-2
1-1-1-1-3
1-1-1-2-2
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
GPU partition
0
500
1000
1500
throughput (req/s)
densenet121 [batch=8]
7
3-3
1-2-3
1-1-1-3
1-2-4
1-1-1-4
2-2-3
1-1-2-3
1-2-2-2
1-1-1-1-3
1-1-1-2-2
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
GPU partition
0
500
1000
1500
throughput (req/s)
densenet121 [batch=16]
7
3-3
1-2-3
1-1-1-3
1-2-4
1-1-1-4
2-2-3
1-2-2-2
1-1-2-3
1-1-1-2-2
1-1-1-1-3
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
GPU partition
0
500
1000
1500
throughput (req/s)
densenet121 [batch=32]
7
3-3
1-2-4
1-2-3
2-2-3
1-1-1-4
1-1-1-3
1-1-2-3
1-2-2-2
1-1-1-1-3
1-1-1-2-2
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
GPU partition
0
200
400
600
throughput (req/s)
inceptionv3 [batch=1]
7
3-3
1-2-3
1-1-1-3
1-2-4
1-1-1-4
2-2-3
1-1-2-3
1-2-2-2
1-1-1-1-3
1-1-1-2-2
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
GPU partition
0
500
1000
1500
throughput (req/s)
inceptionv3 [batch=8]
7
3-3
1-2-3
1-1-1-3
1-2-4
1-1-1-4
2-2-3
1-2-2-2
1-1-2-3
1-1-1-2-2
1-1-1-1-3
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
GPU partition
0
500
1000
1500
2000
throughput (req/s)
inceptionv3 [batch=16]
7
3-3
1-2-3
1-1-1-3
1-2-4
1-1-1-4
2-2-3
1-2-2-2
1-1-2-3
1-1-1-2-2
1-1-1-1-3
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
GPU partition
0
500
1000
1500
2000
throughput (req/s)
inceptionv3 [batch=32]
7
3-3
1-2-4
1-2-3
2-2-3
1-1-1-4
1-1-1-3
1-1-2-3
1-2-2-2
1-1-1-1-3
1-1-1-2-2
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
GPU partition
0
250
500
750
1000
throughput (req/s)
bert-base-uncased [batch=1]
7
1-1-1-3
1-2-3
3-3
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-2-2
1-1-1-4
1-2-2-2
1-1-1-1-3
1-2-4
1-1-2-3
2-2-3
GPU partition
0
500
1000
throughput (req/s)
bert-base-uncased [batch=8]
1-1-1-3
1-2-3
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-2-2
1-1-1-4
1-2-2-2
3-3
1-2-4
1-1-1-1-3
1-1-2-3
7
2-2-3
GPU partition
0
500
1000
throughput (req/s)
bert-base-uncased [batch=16]
1-2-3
1-1-1-3
1-2-2-2
1-1-1-2-2
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
1-2-4
1-1-1-4
3-3
2-2-3
7
1-1-2-3
1-1-1-1-3
GPU partition
0
500
1000
throughput (req/s)
bert-base-uncased [batch=32]
7
3-3
1-2-3
1-2-4
2-2-3
1-1-1-3
1-1-1-4
1-1-2-3
1-2-2-2
1-1-1-1-3
1-1-1-2-2
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
GPU partition
0
200
400
600
800
throughput (req/s)
gpt2 [batch=1]
7
1-1-1-3
1-2-3
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-2-2
1-2-2-2
1-1-1-4
3-3
1-2-4
1-1-1-1-3
1-1-2-3
2-2-3
GPU partition
0
500
1000
throughput (req/s)
gpt2 [batch=8]
1-1-1-3
1-2-3
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-2-2
1-1-1-4
1-2-2-2
1-2-4
3-3
1-1-1-1-3
1-1-2-3
7
2-2-3
GPU partition
0
500
1000
throughput (req/s)
gpt2 [batch=16]
1-1-1-3
1-2-3
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-2-2
1-2-2-2
1-1-1-4
1-2-4
3-3
1-1-1-1-3
1-1-2-3
7
2-2-3
GPU partition
0
500
1000
throughput (req/s)
gpt2 [batch=32]
7
3-3
1-2-4
1-2-3
1-1-1-4
1-1-1-3
2-2-3
1-1-2-3
1-1-1-1-3
1-2-2-2
1-1-1-2-2
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
GPU partition
0
100
200
300
throughput (req/s)
roberta-large [batch=1]
1-1-1-3
1-2-3
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
7
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-2-2
1-1-1-4
1-2-2-2
1-2-4
3-3
1-1-1-1-3
1-1-2-3
2-2-3
GPU partition
0
100
200
300
400
throughput (req/s)
roberta-large [batch=8]
1-1-1-3
1-2-3
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-2-2
1-1-1-4
3-3
7
1-2-2-2
1-2-4
1-1-1-1-3
1-1-2-3
2-2-3
GPU partition
0
100
200
300
400
throughput (req/s)
roberta-large [batch=16]
1-1-1-3
1-2-3
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
1-1-1-1-1-2
3-3
1-1-1-2-2
1-1-1-4
1-2-2-2
1-2-4
7
1-1-1-1-3
1-1-2-3
2-2-3
GPU partition
0
100
200
300
400
throughput (req/s)
roberta-large [batch=32]
7
3-3
1-2-4
1-2-3
1-1-1-4
1-1-1-3
2-2-3
1-1-2-3
1-1-1-1-3
1-2-2-2
1-1-1-2-2
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
GPU partition
0
100
200
300
throughput (req/s)
albert-large-v2 [batch=1]
1-1-1-3
1-2-3
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-2-2
7
1-2-2-2
1-1-1-4
1-2-4
3-3
1-1-1-1-3
1-1-2-3
2-2-3
GPU partition
0
100
200
300
400
throughput (req/s)
albert-large-v2 [batch=8]
1-1-1-3
1-2-3
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-2-2
1-1-1-4
3-3
7
1-2-2-2
1-2-4
1-1-1-1-3
1-1-2-3
2-2-3
GPU partition
0
100
200
300
400
throughput (req/s)
albert-large-v2 [batch=16]
1-1-1-3
1-2-3
1-1-1-1-1-1-1
1-1-1-1-1-2
1-1-1-4
1-1-1-2-2
3-3
1-2-4
1-2-2-2
7
1-1-1-1-3
1-1-2-3
2-2-3
GPU partition
0
100
200
300
400
throughput (req/s)
albert-large-v2 [batch=32]
0.0
2.5
5.0
7.5
10.0
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
20
40
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
25
50
75
100
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
50
100
150
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
5
10
15
20
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
25
50
75
100
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
50
100
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
100
200
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
5
10
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
10
20
30
40
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
20
40
60
80
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
50
100
150
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
5
10
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
10
20
30
40
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
20
40
60
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
25
50
75
100
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
2
4
6
8
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
20
40
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
25
50
75
100
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
50
100
150
200
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
2
4
6
8
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
20
40
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
25
50
75
100
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
50
100
150
200
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
10
20
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
50
100
150
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
100
200
300
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
200
400
600
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
10
20
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
50
100
150
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
100
200
300
weighted avg latency (ms)
0
200
400
600
weighted avg latency (ms)
Figure 19: TensorFlow model inference throughputs and latencies for distinct GPU partitions.
20
